---‘Boca de Rua': The Brazilian newspaper produced entirely by people living on the street
After 19 years, Boca is still telling stories from the street
Marcos Scher selling the paper at traffic lights before the pandemic. Photo: Charlotte Dafol/Used with permission
Nineteen years ago in Porto Alegre, in southern Brazil, a newspaper made entirely by people living on the streets was created. 
Boca de Rua (Mouth of the Street, also known as Boca) newspaper was ideated by a group of journalists who wanted to provide this community with the tools to speak for themselves.
The project was conceived in 2000 and a year later, during the first meeting of the World Social Forum, the first edition of Boca was launched. 
Today, the newspaper is the only member of the International Network of Street Papers (INSP) created entirely by people living on the streets.
The ideas for stories, interviewees and questions are all developed by the community itself. 
Two journalists, who have been with the project since the beginning, are responsible for designing every new issue. 
A group of volunteers also helps with support such as recording meetings, guiding the reporters about notetaking, and transcribing notes on the computer.
Published as a quarterly.
Boca's coverage ranges from reports of abuses suffered by those on the street to positive stories. 
Over a period of three months, the group decides on the direction of the coverage, they go out into the field, conduct interviews, take photographs and gather testimonies for the stories. 
Member turnover is high, but on average, about 50 people work on each edition.
After printing, each member of the group receives a share of copies to sell on the streets of Porto Alegre and all the proceeds go to the journalist/vendors. 
The publication is also sustained by donations from supporters, many of them anonymous.
Rosina Duarte, one of the creators of Boca de Rua and the NGO ALICE (Free Agency for Information, Citizenship and Education), to which the newspaper is linked, said that the initial aim was “to give a voice to those who don't have one”. 
In time, however, they realized that this was presumptuous — the voices were always there, society just didn't listen to them, she says.
In a telephone interview with Global Voices, Rosina says:
Translation Original Quote
When we arrived, we still had those pretty words which hold a lot of undertones of “nice prejudice”, as I call it, which is wanting to give something to them to help. 
But we realized that it was us who had to become literate in the language of the street. 
They didn't have literacy in written language, but we were completely illiterate about life on the street.
Catarina and Daniel wearing masks with Boca's logo | Photo: Luiz Abreu/Used with permission
The journalists’ original idea was to create a radio broadcast program using speakers installed on the city's lamp posts. 
But when they contacted a group of homeless people, they were adamant: “We want a newspaper about us”. 
Rosina says the idea worried her at first, but it worked:
Translation Original Quote
When they said they wanted a newspaper, we went after funding, still feeling our way in the dark, not knowing what to do. 
But one day the penny dropped: by telling what was happening on the streets, they were breaking news. 
And if they became aware of this, the paper would organize itself very clearly. 
Because we make news all the time. 
Some people do it in a more objective way, others less objective, but we do it.
Over time, the newspaper also became a kind of social movement. 
The group meets weekly to discuss collective demands and possibilities for supporting the individual issues of its members. 
It is also linked to initiatives in the field, such as the Movimento Nacional da População de Rua (National Movement of People on the Street) and Amada Massa (Loving Dough), a bakery that aims to generate autonomy for people with a history on the streets in Porto Alegre.
Regarding the content of the stories told by the paper, Rosina recalls:
Translation Original Quote
It seems like it's just suffering, it seems like it's just difficulty. 
And it's not, we have discovered this joy, this resistance, we appreciate this immense, fantastic capacity to survive, not only to stay alive, but to keep hope, joy, affection and all these things alive.
Voices from the streets
In a telephone interview with Global Voices, Elisângela Escalante, who joined the group six years ago when she was on the streets, emphasized the importance of the newspaper in her life:
Translation Original Quote
A lot happened to me through the paper. 
It got me off the street. 
Because I lived on the street for three and a half years and I got out after a few months going to the paper. 
I was saving some money and started to rent my own space. 
Before I didn't earn my money, I depended on my partner for everything. 
It makes a difference for me, I like to have my own money.
The cover of the edition which drew attention to the challenges of motherhood on the street. 
Photo: Agência ALICE/Boca de Rua, used with permission.
Elisângela remembers one edition in particular, where the cover story asked: “Why can't we be mothers?”. 
The report talked about the challenges that women with street backgrounds face in motherhood.
While producing the report, some women members of the newspaper managed to regain contact with their children who they hadn't seen in years, Elisângela says:
Translation Original Quote
I think what we say [in the paper] is the truth. 
It's what we feel and what we experience within society. 
If it weren't for Boca, I wouldn't have any other way to do this and be heard by so many people. 
Through it I got a lot of things and I helped a lot of people too.
For the first time in its history, the newspaper is unable to be sold on the streets due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
In an effort to alleviate the effects on the reporters’ income, Boca de Rua has been transformed into a digital version.
With a contribution of 20 BRL (around 3.75 US dollars) every three months, readers access the latest edition of Boca, as well as old editions and other material.
For the contributors and reporters, the most important thing is that the voices from the street continue to be heard during the pandemic. 
When asked in a telephone conversation about his feelings about the newspaper, Marcos Sher, a 13-year veteran of Boca, said:
Translation Original Quote
For me it's good, very good. 
So you can see I'm not letting go, right? 
Sometimes I stop for a while, but I come back again. 
For me, the newspaper was a way to get out of [drug] trafficking and go back to work. 
It's good because it's something to do, to get me out of the house. 
Having something to do is very important for me.
Editor's note: Talita Fernandes works with the newspaper Boca de Rua (Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul) and wrote a dissertation “Street, feminine noun: women in movement and the right to the body in the city”, by the Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS).
---Families suffer spillover effects from school closures
Kenya's 'out-of-school learning' curricula requires digital access that many lack
Editor's note: This post was co-written by Global Voices contributor Bonface Witaba and guest contributor Sri Ranjini Mei Hua, a researcher and writer from Singapore.
In March, the Kenya government announced the suspension of schools as part of its measures to curb the spread of COVID–19. 
The announcement threw the school curriculum into disarray, affecting 18 million learners nationwide. 
It also threatened to derail progress toward inclusive, equitable and quality education as described in Agenda 4 of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals.
As part of efforts to ensure continued learning while protecting the health, safety, and well-being of learners and educators, the Ministry of Education, in collaboration with education partners and stakeholders, designed the Kenya Basic Education COVID-19 Emergency Response Plan, with the objective to promote “out-of-classroom learning” through radio, TV, e-cloud, and mobile phones.
Today, in spite of efforts by the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD) to expand online content delivery, an estimated 80 percent of learners still do not have access to remote lessons, according to a study carried out by Usawa Agenda (an education network).
This is due, in part, to unequal access to technology such as computers, laptops or smartphones, as well as prohibitive internet costs and unreliable internet access, especially for learners from disadvantaged families and marginalized communities. 
Even where the technology is available, there are concerns around young children’s unsupervised internet usage.
Prior to the lockdown, learners were able to access free meals at school. 
Girls were able to access sanitary towels through an initiative to provide free sanitary towels. 
However, with the prolonged shutdown, Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha declared the school calendar as “lost,” meaning schools will remain closed until 2021, leaving thousands of students in a dire situation as their families are unable to afford food and basic necessities due to recent unemployment.
In Kibra, for instance, an area deemed to be the largest informal settlement in Nairobi (and in Africa), most learners are unable to access KCID’s “out-of-classroom learning” curricula, and most do not have a place to study, much less play or exercise.
(For many years, the area was called “Kibera,” a mispronunciation of the word kibra, a Nubian word for “forest.” Kenya's Nubian community feels using “Kibera” robs them of their identity).
In a Skype interview with Asha Jaffar, a journalist residing in Kibra who covers stories about the plight of the Kibra community, Jaffar told Global Voices that there were a limited number of free libraries that allowed up to 10 learners at a time to do their homework. 
However, these learners are required to give up the space to the next lot of learners after about an hour. 
She added that free tuition initiatives for learners have had to scale down due to social distancing rules imposed by the government and health officials.
Asha Jaffar, a journalist and Kibra resident, points over Kibra settlement. 
Photo by Kibra Food Drive, August 2020, used with permission.
The long-term impact of school closures are wide-ranging and even more devastating to families living below the poverty line. 
As food security takes precedence over education, learners — particularly girls and young women — from vulnerable families often have to work on farms and contribute to household chores or care work instead of learning.  
This played out during the lockdown which coincided with the peak planting season in March.
Some girls may even be subject to early marriage which puts them at a higher risk of dropping out of school, often as a result of early pregnancies. 
Hence, educational outcomes for the most vulnerable families will suffer as they have little reason to send their children back to school when it reopens.
In  March, Jaffar launched Kibra Food Drive to help alleviate hunger in the Kibra community through donations of food parcels to the most vulnerable families. 
It started through donation solicitation via M-Pesa (a mobile wallet), with the aim of feeding 100 vulnerable families a week, but with an increasing need for support, the initiative has fed 2,400 families, as of August 5. 
Jaffar recognizes that providing free meals is not enough because the families ultimately need support to start small businesses. 
However, the community remains in a deadlock as trade and economic activity stalls.
A volunteer delivers food to Kibra residents through the Kibra food drive in Kibra, Kenya, August 2020. 
Photo by Kibra Food Drive, used with permission.
Kenya anticipates a new academic year in 2021 — but this all depends on the number of COVID-19 infections — according to Education Cabinet Secretary Magoha.
Several education experts say that this period is an opportune time for the government to conduct a gap analysis of the education system and perform a complete reboot in the quest to provide equitable access to learning for all as envisioned in the Kenya Basic Education COVID-19 Emergency Response Plan. 
The first step would be to allocate budget toward improving the school infrastructure in terms of lighting, desks and chairs and providing reliable electricity supply — especially in rural areas. 
Next, the government could lower water and electricity tariffs for schools as these huge costs are hurting their operations.
Only when these priorities are sorted can efforts resume on a stalled digital literacy project initiated in 2013 by the government. 
The digital literacy program aimed to ensure that learners in lower primary school (grades 1-3) can use digital technology and communication tools, with an overarching objective to transform learning in Kenya into a 21st-century education system.
The project stalled barely got off the ground after its pilot phase due to failure to meet intended outcomes and educators being ill-prepared to scale out the initiative. 
To achieve success, the program requires extensive ICT training for educators so they can effectively use and troubleshoot these gadgets.
Kenya has progressed from a Universal Primary Education (UPE) agenda into an Education For All (EFA) agenda. 
UPE, the second goal in the United Nations Millennium Development Goal, aimed to ensure that by 2015, all children around the world completed primary schooling, whereas EFA, was a global movement led by UNESCO, aimed to bring the benefits of education to “every citizen in every society.” 
With these gains, Kenya cannot afford to roll back on progress.
Kenya’s next challenge is now to ensure that learners have access to digital literacy projects that provide not just conventional education, but holistic, skills-based, autonomous learning in order to meet its education vision and sustainable development goals by 2030.
---The struggle to end Nigeria's brutal SARS police unit continues
Nigerian youth continue to protest throughout the country
Posted 15 October 2020 14:40 GMT 
Read this post in Yorùbá, Français, Español
Protesters gather to end SARS on October 13, 2020, in Ikeja, Lagos. 
Photo by Nora Awolowo, used with permission.
Over the last week, Nigerian youth have risen up in masses to wage war against a unit of the Nigeria Police Force known as The Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), notorious for extrajudicial killings, extortion, kidnapping, and rape since the unit was created in 1992.
More than 100 people have reportedly been killed by SARS in past four to five years, according to Amnesty International.
Nigerian youth — often the target of SARS — have, on several occasions, clamored for a total scrap of the unit, to no avail. 
But this time, several recent arrests and killings in Lagos State sparked the zeal to make this a reality — after the SARS was disbanded about four times in four years — has driven mass action on the streets.
READ MORE: ‘Lazy’ Nigerian youth mobilize #EndSARS protest from social media to the streets
This war against police brutality has also created a wave of awareness and generated a lot of conversations in the media space.
Protests have erupted in at least 12 of Nigeria’s 36 states, including Abuja, the federal capital, and Lagos, where protesters have blocked toll gates and airports within the state, hoping it makes an economic effect so elected leaders can acknowledge the protesters’ wishes in no time.
Here are the protesters’ demands:
Nigerians in the diaspora have also taken to the streets to show their displeasure with the notorious SARS unit which has, for years, committed crimes with impunity. 
Protesters have gathered to denounce SARS in London, England, Dublin, Ireland, Ottawa and Toronto, Canada, Cologne, Germany, Moscow, Russia, Pretoria, South Africa, as well as Texas and Washington, DC, in the US.
At least 10 protesters have been killed during the protests, according to Amnesty International. 
Among those killed is Jimoh Isiaq, killed in Ogbomosho, Oyo State, and Ikechukwu Ilohamauzo, killed at the Surulere protest in Lagos, whose names both went viral on social media.
Medical doctors have begun to accompany protesters in cases of emergency.
Protesters gather to denounce SARS, Monday, October 12, 2020, in Yaba, Lagos. 
Photo by Aremu Adeola Jr., used with permission.
Inspector-General of Police Muhammad Adamu disbanded the unit a few days ago, but Nigerians are not convinced this will take effect as the previous disbandment of the unit never yielded positive results.
On Monday, President Muhammad Buhari of Nigeria assured citizens that the disbandment will be effective immediately and that the federal government will establish a presidential reform panel to look into police welfare and other critical areas, ensuring the demands of the masses be put into action.
Some lawyers and human rights activists among youth activists have been working hard to release detained protesters.
Protesters have made it clear that the fight to end SARS is not politically motivated, warning politicians, including members of opposition parties, not to hijack the protest for individual, party or political gains.
Protesters insist that there are no leaders in their movement and that every person who comes out to protest is a leader and follower alike. 
They insist that the presidency and/or the Inspector-General of Police address all grievances at once and not just a few selected individuals.
The question about who controls the police and SARS has not been adequately answered. 
The constitution vested control of the police to the presidency under the supervision of the police chief.
But that chain-of-command and control seems to have broken.
To release protesters at Surulere, Lagos State, for example, it took calls from State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, speaker of the federal house of representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, and Desmond Elliot, Lagos State House of Assembly members representing Surulere and a few lawyers.
On October 12, the governor of River State, Nyesom Wike, announced through a tweet that no protest — especially the #EndSARS protest — is allowed in his state.
That doesn't sit well with citizens. 
Several individuals responded through various platforms that the constitution which made him governor also gave citizens the fundamental right to protest.
However, Wike recanted and addressed the protesters, expressing support for their cause.
The protests continue in several parts of the country including River State. Protesters have promised not to back down until signs of compliance are seen by police and also the federal government.
On Tuesday, October 13, protesters reported on Twitter that at Iwo Road, Ibadan, members of the Nigerian Army were marching with protesters in solidarity.
Also on October 14, Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu walked with protesters, reassuring them of the commitment of the government to end the menace.
