The Lagos State Government says that ten victims of the July 4  Ijegun pipeline explosion have died due to severe and high degree burns suffered from the inferno.
The Permanent Secretary, State Ministry of Health, Dr Titilayo Goncalves, who made this known to newsmen in Lagos,said that three of the victims died at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Ikeja, while seven died at Gbagada General Hospital.
According to her, out of the 22 victims rescued by the Lagos State Ambulance Service, nine were taken to LASUTH, 12 to Trauma and Burns Unit of Gbagada General Hospital and one to Alimosho General Hospital.
She also said that they are doing everything possible to ensure that no other life is lost and from reports received, they are responding to treatment.
Greece's new Prime Minister, MrKyriakos Mitsotakis has said that he would not fail to honour the hopes of the Greek people after New Democracy's landslide victory.
Mr. Mitsotakis emerged the winner of the election with several votes.
This Prime minister said his government will be a peaceful one.
He also promised to renegotiate a deal with Greece's creditors that would allow more money to be reinvested in the country.
President Muhammadu Buhari returned to Abuja on Monday after attending the 12th Extraordinary Summit of the African Union in Niamey, Niger Republic.
The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the presidential aircraft conveying the President and some members of his entourage landed at àthe Presidential Wing of the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport Abuja at about 1:25 p.m.
The president signed the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) agreement, making Nigeria the 53rd state in the continent to append its signature to the document.
The President had delayed signing the agreement, which entered into force on May 30, 2019.
The delay was to give room for extensive consultations with stakeholders, culminating in the submission of the report by the presidential committee, to assess the impact and readiness of Nigeria to join the free trade area.
The advocacy for gender balance and equal opportunity is not meant to engender rivalry between men and women; rather it is aimed at ensuring that both women and men are given equal opportunities in the various sphere of our national life.
A former Minister of Industry, Dr. Nike Akande made the clarification in Lagos at an event organized by the State Government to mark this year’s International Women’s Day, IDW.
She noted that the Nigeria of our dreams is a country led by the best of our people and a place where there is justice, fair play and equality.
In a message, Governor of Lagos, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode, who was represented by the Commissioner for Youths and Social Development, Agboola Dabiri acknowledged that women had been contributing immensely to the political and economic growth of the state and advised those who are mothers and guardians to encourage the youths, particularly girls to have good behaviour so as to be good leaders tomorrow.
A member of Lagos State Assembly representing Eti-Osa Constituency Two, Mr. Gbolahan Yishawu has saluted workers for their immense contribution to the nation’s building.
Mr. Yishawu in his May Day message to congratulate the Nigerian workers and their efforts in ensuring progress and development in their various working place commended the courage of the Nigerian Labour Congress and Trade Union Congress for their quest to ensure increase in workers minimum wage.
The lawmaker assured citizens that the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari holds workers interest in high esteem, saying that the immediate signing of new minimum wage bill into law was an attestation.
Mr. Yisawu appealed to organizations that are owing their workers to pay on time.
As workers around the world marks Workers Day today, a renewed call has gone to all levels of government to look into the provision of affordable housing units, comprehensive health insurance cover and prompt disbursement of pensions and other benefits to workers in the country to boost their productivity.
The call was made by the Nigerian Union of Journalist, Lagos Chapter Chairman, Dr. QazeemAkinreti in a chat with our correspondent.
Dr. Akinreti also said after the signing of the new minimum wage there is still much grounds to cover in terms of workers welfare.
The winner of last Saturday Councillorship bye-election in Ward A Obele/Oniwala in Surulere Local Government area of Lagos State Mr. Kazeem Bello, has received his certificate of return from the Lagos State Independent Electoral Commission, LASIEC.
Chairman of the commission, Justice Ayotunde Phillips congratulated the councilor-elect on his victory and encouraged him not to relent in rural development project.
Justice Philips whose address at the ceremony was delivered by an electoral commissioner of the Commission Honourable Olusegun Ayedun noted that the commission demonstrates its commitment to play a crucial role among the political parties competing
The Chairman however expressed disappointment over the low turn-out of voters during the election.
The Chairman also expressed appreciation to security agencies, particularly the Police, Department of State Security and Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps.
The Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, LAGSEMA, has advised motorists, tricycle operators and other road users against reckless driving, over-speeding as well as to always be vigilant especially when driving through the railway crossings to avoid unnecessary loss of lives.
The General Manager of LASEMA, Mr. Adeshina Tiamiyu gave the advice following the unfortunate incidents involving a tricycle rider that suddenly rammed into a moving train while trying to cross the railway crossing around Shina Peters Road, Iju Ishaa area of Lagos where four persons died and one escaped unhurt.
Mr. Tiamiyu noted that the incident could have been avoided if road traffic rules were strictly adhere to by the tricycle operator.
He advised motorists, other road users especially tricycle operators who are mostly in habit of maneuvering any available space to always exercise patience to avoid unnecessary loss of lives.
President Muhammadu Buhari is committed to improving the welfare of works and leaving behind a legacy of service and buoyant economy, the Minister of Labour and Employment Dr. Chris Ngige who made this known in a message to mark worker’s day. He maintained that the President was determined to create an economy that would bring about sustainable abundance to Nigerians.
Similarly, the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki saluted workers on their contributions to the country’s socio economic development of our. In his Workers’ Day, message signed by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, Dr. Saraki hailed the leadership of the organized Labour for their patriotism in often choosing dialogue rather than industrial action in resolving trade disputes.
Saraki expressed hope that workers would be encouraged therefore they should always put in their best.
Nigeria workers have converged on Agege Stadium to celebrate this year’s Workers Day.
Lagos State Commissioner for Establishment, Training, Pension, Mr. Akintola Benson, commended Nigeria Labour congress for their struggle for welfare of the workers.
He said the state would continue to provide conducive atmosphere for workers while jobs creation would be government’s priority.
In a remark, Lagos State Trade Union Congress Chairman TUC, Mr. Francis Ogunremi called on Governor Akinwunmi Ambode to commence payment of minimum wage by May and arrears of April.
While commending government for prompt payment of workers’ salaries and remittance of pensions, Mr. Ogunremi appealed to the state government to regularize employment of casual and contract workers.
The eight National Assembly under the leadership of the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki and his counterpart at the House of Representatives Mr. Yakubu Dogara have been described as efficient and effective
The assertion was given by a member of the Green chambers representing Badagry Constituency at the National Assemblies. Mr. Bamgbose, said that the eight assembly performed creditably all members of the chamber placed national interest above individual interests. Mr. Bamgbose who stressed that as a member of the House, he has been able to also affect his constituents positively though various empowerment programmes, ranging from agriculture, crafts and many artisans within Badagry Federal Constituency. Mr. Bamgbose thanked Badagrians for giving him the opportunity to serve and promised to continue to deliver more dividends to his people.
The Presidential Task-Force in Apapa road clearance has busted a cartel that extorts money from truck drives.
Mr. Opeifa who noted that presidential order’s deadline for the clearance of the roads elapses today.
Mr. Opeifa urged freight forwarders and truckers unions to direct their trucks and drivers to the approved private parks for a call-up to the port.
As the Eid-El-Kabir draws near, Lagosians have expressed their displeasure over the increase in prices of goods in the market which has made life unbearable for them.
Some Lagosians who spoke with Bond FM said that everything has become expensive.
They appealed to the government to put in place measure to address the situation.
The Lagos Waste Management Authority, LAWMA, has called on residents to properly dispose of their domestic wasts during and after the forthcoming Eid-el-kabir celebrations so as to prevent outbreak of infection.
In a statement, the Assistant Director, Public Affairs of LAWMA, Mrs. Folashade Kadiri said that adequate measures had been put in place to ensure that the celebration is observed in a filth-free environment.
She said LAWMA would be distributing free trash bags to residents for easy storage of extra waste that would be generated during the period.
The Police Service Commission has approved with immediate effect the dismissal of nine senior Police officers for gross misconduct.
This was part of the outcome of the plenary meeting of the Commission, which held in Abuja on March 26 and 27, 2019, presided over by its Chairman, Musiliu Smith, a retired Inspector-General of Police, adding that the commissioner also approved severe punishment for ten office.
According to the statement, those dismissed were Abdul Ahmed, Adamu Abare, Osondu Christian, Samson Ahmidu and Pius Timiala, Agatha Usman, Esther Yahaya, Idris Shehu and Usman Dass.
The Commission further requested the acting IG to furnish it with information on the punishment meted out to other officers mentioned in the Police Investigation Reports.
OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS
Over two point seven million people die from occupational accidents and work related diseases annually worldwide.
The Permanent Secretary Ministry of Labour and Employment, Mr. William Alo said most immeasurable human suffering and catastrophe caused by poor occupational safety and health practices and conditions are largely preventable.
He said would continue to develop and review policies, legislative and regulatory frame work critical to achieving sustainable improvement in safety and health standards in the work place.
Contributing, the International Labour Organisation, ILO, Country Director in Nigeria, Mr. Denis Zulu said Nigeria had been consistent in commemorating the World Day for Occupational Safety, noting that the celebration gives an opportunity to see how much progress has been made in safety and health at the work place.
ROAD SAFETY
Motor-cyclists and tri-cyclists caught driving against traffic in Lagos, would be subjected to psychiatric tests while their motor-cycles and tricycles will be seized.
The Lagos State Sector Commander of the Federal Road Safety Corps, FRSC, Mr. Hyginus Omeje stated this at a sensitization programme organized for riders and passengers, safety in IfakoIjaiye Local Government.
Represented by Mr. Ofure Ihenacho, Mr. Omeje said road users had a right of way and urged them to use the highway responsibly.
The FRSC Lagos boss, also enjoined them to ensure that their passengers sit properly.
In a remark, the Council Chairman, Apostle Oloruntoba Oke, urged riders to have a change of attitude and see their job as critical to other road users.
The African Union (AU) has said that it is "with deep regret" that the military authorities in Sudan have not handed over power to civilians.
The AU had given the military fifteen days Altimatum to transfer power shortly after President Omar al-Bashir was overthrown three weeks ago.
The African Union has also given the coup leaders another 60 days to step down in favour of civilians, saying If they fail to do this Sudan will be suspended from the AU.
The military leaders have been holding discussions with protest leaders and opposition figures on how to manage the transition to democratic rule.
BAMGBOSE/HOUSE OF REP
The eight National Assembly under the leadership of the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki and his counterpart at the House of Representatives Mr. Yakubu Dogara have been described as efficient and effective.
The assertion was given by a member of the Green chambers representing Badagry Constituency at the National Assemblies. Mr. Bamgbose, said that the eight assembly performed creditably all members of the chamber placed national interest above individual interests. Mr. Bamgbose who stressed that as a member of the House, he has been able to also affect his constituents positively though various empowerment programmes, ranging from agriculture, crafts and many artisans within Badagry Federal Constituency. Mr. Bamgbose thanked Badagrians for giving him the opportunity to serve and promised to continue to deliver more dividends to his people.
The inspector general of police Mohammeed Adamu, has called for stiffer law against kidnapping, banditry and other heinous crimes.
IGP Adamu made this known in Abuja while addressing a delegation of the Nassarawa State Chapter of the association of Lagos Government of Nigeria led by Alhaji Aminu Muazu Maifata during a Sallah visit.
Mr. Adamu who stated the feats recorded so far by “Operation Puff Addent in the ongoing fight against criminality nationwide, said since its launch in April 5, 2019, the team had rescued sixty-three kidnap victims.
According to him, a good number of cases are being prosecuted in courts across the federation, while several others are at investigation level.
The Police boss commended his mentor for a good job, and maintained that the mind boggling arrests and arms recoveries were a testament to the efficiency of the rescue team.
As part of efforts to enhance the gredibility and intergrity o the Nigerian Ship Registry, the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA, has unveiled new certificates for fishing vessels, cabotage bare boat charger vessels and cabotage wholly Nigerian vessels.
NIMASA, Director General, Dr. Dakuku Peterside who unveiled the certificate in Lagos during an interactive forum with ship owners.
Dr. Dakuku stated that Nigeria’s ship currently ranks second in Africa and forty-six globally according to the international maritime organisations ranking. At the end of the highly interactive forum, the ship owners expressed their willingness to partner with NIMASA to realise it’s set objectives to boost the intergrity of indigenous ships in the international community.
The Special Adviser to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on local government and chieftaincy Matters, Mr. Bayo Isinyemi has been described as a grassroot politicians who has played a vital roles in the lives of the less previledge especially amongs All Progressive Congress Party members in Mushin and Oyuwoye area of Lagos State.
This was a statement of an elder Statemen Alhaji Chief Abdul Ralmon Rufai Apena as a goodwill message to mark the seventy years birthday of Mr. Bayo Osinyemi.
Alhaji Apena who is the Balogun Ododowo Ojuwoye expressed satisfacion in the humility and worthy life style of the celebrant which is worthy of emulation. Alhaji Apena further prayed for the celebrant.
The Chairman of Ikosi-Isheri Local Council Development Area, Princess Samiat Bada has restated her commitment to the wellbeing of the people in the council area.  Princess Bada who stated this after administered oath of office on her vice Chairman, Alhaji Mukaila Adisa at council secretariat Ikosi said her administration would focus on infrastructural development, empowerment of aged persons, widows and the youths so as to live comfortable life. She enjoined all tax paying stakeholders in the council area to pay their levies and rates to the council purse as at when due to continue to enjoy dividends of democracy.
She expressed her appreciation to all APC Chieftains in Kosofe Federal Constituency for their support. The swearing of the Vice Chairman become necessary following the death of former council Chairman, Alhaji Abdul-Fatai Oyesanya which led to the elevation of Vice Chairman, making the position of chairman position vacant.
The Wife of Lagos State Governor, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu has appealed to Muslim faithful in the state to allow the virtues of the just concluded Ramadan period to reflect in their actions, public conduct and interpersonal relations.
Dr. Sanwo-Olu made the appeal at a special get together to mark eid-el-fir at the Lagos House Alausa Ikeja and he advised the faithful to always remember the essence of the month and continue with the principles of the Holy month of Ramadan which are love, peace and happy co-existence.
In his remark, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu who thanked residents for their support and solicited their continued support said very soon, a number would be released which resident can send complains about roads needing rehabilitation for quick response. Reiterating his administration’s zero tolerance on indiscriminate dumping of refuse and flouting of traffic rules the Governor said his administration will continue to call on residents to ensure the successful implementation of its policies.
It was also reported that prayer were offered for the success of the administration peace in Lagos State and Nigeria by the leader of Imams while gifts were presented to youth who participated in Quran recitation and quiz competition.
The Join Admissions and Matriculation Board, JAMB said that it has not published the national and general minimum cut-off marks for placement of candidates into the nation’s tertiary institutions as speculated in some quarters.
The board’s Head Media and Information, Dr. Fabian Benjamin made this known while speaking with the newsmen in Lagos. He described the information is fake and advised candidate to disregard such information. Dr. Benjamin explained that the next policy meeting would be held on Tuesday, June 11 to determine the cut-off mark.
He promised that the board will continue to provide information to the public on its processes and activities at every stage.
The campaign organization of the All Progressives Congress candidate for the position of speaker in the ninth House of Representatives, Mr. Femi Gbajabiamila has denied claims of criminal allegations against him.
The Director General of the Femi Gbajabiamila Ahmed Wase Campaign organization, Mr. Abdulmumuni Jubrin stated this at a news conference in Abuja. He insisted that Gbajabiamila has not been served any court document hence he would be on floor of the Green Chamber to participate in the election on June eleven despite the campaign of calumny.
Mr. Jubril also said that the Inspector General of Police had been petitioned and urged to go after the leadership of the coalition of united political parties with a view to investigate the source of their information and to identify their collaborators in the federal parliament.
He said that Gbajabiamila has instructed his legal team to sue the cup leadership for defamation of character.
A former lawmaker representing Kosofe Federal Constituency at the House of Representatives, Mr. Dayo Bash-Alebiosu has asked Muslim faithful to emulate the virtues of Prophet Mohammed.
Mr. Dayo Bash made this known while speaking to newsmen during the celebration of the Eid-el-fitri to mark the successful end of the one month of fasting.
Mr. Bash sought for prayers for the success of all the leaders in the country especially President Muhammadu Buhari and the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu.
He also enjoined the faithful to use this season to pray for peace, prosperity and unity of Nigeria.
The Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has restated his commitment to collaborate with residents and people of the state for successful implementation of his administration’s policies and programmes.
Governor Sanwo-Olu who said tis when he hosted Muslim faithful in Lagos House, Alausa, Ikeja to mark 2019 Eid-el-fitri informed the gathering that his government would soon release emergency hotlines to the public to call the Lagos State Public Works for immediate fixing of pot-holes and roads need urgent repairs.
The Anti-Cultism Unit of the Nigeria Police has urged hoteliers in Lagos State to be more security conscious by monitoring activities of cultists, who use hotels as their meeting points.
The Commander, Anti-cultism Unit, Mr. Udom Uduak gave the charge during a meeting with Hoteliers, community leaders and local security men at the Gbagada Police Division, as part of measures by police to address the prevailing cult activities.
Mr. Uduak charged hotel owners to improve the technological watch of their hotels by embracing electronic surveillance, such as CCTV. He also implored them to be alert and work with the police to bring them to book, by reporting them to the police, whenever there is any sign that identifies them as a cult group.
The Lagos State Water Corporation says the ongoing road construction along the Lagos-Abeokuta expressway is responsible for the disruption in supply to Iyana-Ipaja, Egbeda, Dopemu, Orile Agege, Idimu, Isheri Olofin and other adjoining communities.
In a statement, the Lagos State Water Corporation Managing Director, Mr. Muminu Badmus explained that the corporation 1200 mm ductile pipe and water main/pipe supplying potable water to these areas were damaged by the construction activities.
He apologized to the residents and assured them that water supply would be restored as soon as possible.
The Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, Professor Mahmood Yakubu has described the nation’s current electoral act as problematic.
He said a new legal framework must be put in place in order to address the irregularities being witnessed in the nation’s electoral process.
Professor Yakubu stated this during the 12th National delegates Conference of the Forum of State Independent Electoral Commissions of Nigeria held in Jos, Plateau State Capital.
The Chairman, who was represented by the Commission National Commission, National Commissioner and Chairman Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye said the current legal framework creates uncertainty and undermine the people’s confidence.
He made a case for an electoral law that would ensure the settlement of all pre-election matters at least sixty days before the commencement of an election.
Professor Yakubu noted that party nomination had a tremendous impact on the preparations and conduct of election.
The INEC Boss added that removing names and logos of political parties and changing the names of party’s candidates until the eve of election an account of court orders and pronouncement is very problematic and confusing.
There is a need to maintain peaceful and cordial relationship and obedience to the constituted authorities to fast-track development in any society.
This was the talking point of the Chairman of Ojokoro Local Council Development Area, Mr. Hammed Idowu Tijani in a message to the annual Ramadan lecture of the unified local government Muslim staff at the council secretariat in Ojokoro.
The chairman who commended all members of staff of the Islamic faith in the council for peaceful manner in which they always conduct themselves and the cordial relationship being maintained with other religious groups, noted that Ramadan is for the cleansing of our bodies and souls with fasting and prayers for the spiritual renewal.
He assure staff of the council, the continuous support of his administration towards the enhancement of the general welfares of every staff.
The council boss also expressed his excitement at the resounding Spiritual exploit of the renowned Islamic scholar, His Eminence Fadeelat Sheik (Dr.) Muyideen Ajani Bello carry’s, who was the guest speaker for the programme.
President MuhammaduBuhari has inaugurated the Governing Board of the North East Development Commission, NEDC headed by retired Major General Paul Tarfa as the Chairman.
According to the President, the mandate of the commission is rebuilding the north east ravaged by the Boko Haram insurgency.
While inaugurating the board at the council chamber in Abuja, President Buhari said that the establishment of the commission was in appreciation of the massive electoral support he received from the zone in the 2015 and 2019 general elections.
He said the board would assess coordination and harmonies and report all the intervention programmes and initiatives of the federal government to avoid duplication of effort and waste of scarce resources.
The President further explained that the inauguration of the commission was in fulfilment of the pledge of his administration to the people of the north-east geo-political zone and as part of the strategy for regenerating the socio-economic potentials of the geo-political zone after the devastating of the Boko Haram insurgency.
The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC has promised to continue its current probe of the tenure of Senate President, Bukola Saraki when he was governor of Kwara State from 2003 to 2011.
The anti-graft agency said that it has the mandate to get rid of the country of corruption no matter who is involved.
It said the Senate President has no need to be afraid as long as he has no skeleton in his cupboard.
The agency which made this known through its Acting Head of Media and Publicity, Mr. Tony Orilade said it will conduct a legitimate forensic inquiry into Saraki’s tenure as governor.
Meanwhile, Senate President Saraki has alleged that EFCC’s inquest was a plot to intimidate and frame him up.
The Senate has confirmed the appointment of the former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Mr. Tunde Lemo as the Chairman of the Federal Road Maintenance Agency. The lawmakers adopted the reports of the committee on FERMA recommending Mr. Tunde Lemo and seven others for the agency’s board.
Nurudeen Rafindadi was confirmed as the Managing Director, the Executive Directors are Buba Abdullahi Babagana Aji, Shah Abdullah, Loretta Aniagolu, Mujeedu Dako and Vincent Kolawole.
The Chairman of the committee, Senator Magnus Abe, said the panel found the nominees worthy of the appointments during their screening.
The Federal Executive Council FEC, has approved over nine hundred million naira for building residential accommodation for the Nigeria Customs Services.
The Minister of Finance, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed disclosed this after the Federal Executive Council meeting presided over by President MuhammaduBuhari in State House Abuja.
Mrs. Ahmed said the customs is acquiring an estate that has a total of forty-two flats and the total cost is over one hundred and fifty two million per block of six units.
She added that the custom service also got approval to procure modern communication gadgets like HF radio, walker talkie, cable towers and other accessories at the cost of over two hundred million naira.
The Minister of Finance said these gadgets will help the customs to tackle smuggling and other illegal economic activities.
The International Code Council of Nigeria, (ICC-NNC),Chief Operating Officer,Mr Joseph Otejere,has said that compliance to Codes and Standards was key to avoiding building collapse in the country.
Mr. Otejere who made the assertion in an interview with newsmen in Lagos on building collapse as heavy rainfall sets in, said there is a situation in Nigeria where professionals and developers are not really adhering to building codes and standards.
He said consideration must be given to the fact that Nigeria has different building terrains, especially when it has to do with high rise buildings and care must be taken to ensure that the design is tailored to the structure as well as ensuring that construction there will be in compliance to codes and standards.
He said that certification of the designs done by certified code officials is important to make sure it complied with codes and standards,noted that there was also the International Building Code which Nigeria could adopt and apply.
He added that investigation into the recent building that collapsed in Port Harcourt was traced to the contractor adding structures to the building that were not approved.
Ambassador of Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, DPRK, to Nigeria, Mr Jon Tong Chol has called for closer working relations with Nigeria to achieve meaningful growth.
He made the call in his address at the reception organised to mark the 107th birthday of Kim Il Sung, by the embassy in Abuja.
Mr. Jon, who spoke through Mr Kim Chin Il, First Secretary of the Embassy, an interpreter, said although DPRK had established a relationship with Nigeria, much could be done to deepen it.
Nigeria- map According to him, DPRK and Nigeria have a long standing relationship owing to the platform created by Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il, the country’s founding fathers.
He disclosed that traditional relationships of friendship and cooperation between the Federal Republic of Nigeria and DPKR have further been consolidated and developed.
The military leaders who carried out a coup in Sudan yesterday have sought to reassure people that their only concern is public order.
A spokesman said Sudan's future would be decided by the protesters who took to the streets to demand President Omar al-Bashir's removal.
But protesters remain camped out in the streets of Khartoum, fearing the coup leaders are too close to Mr Bashir.
The military says it will not extradite him on war crimes charges. Issued by the International Criminal Court, ICC, which accuses him of organising war crimes and crimes against humanity in Sudan's Darfur region between 2003 and 2008.
However, he may be put on trial inside Sudan, according to the military council set up after the coup.
His downfall followed months of unrest which began in December over the rising cost of living. At least 38 people have died in the protests.
The army has said it will oversee a transitional period followed by elections. As part of this, it is imposing a three-month state of emergency, with the constitution suspended.
The military council will be in place for a maximum of two years, it says, but could last only a month if the transition to civilian rule is managed smoothly.
Thirteen thousand, seven hundred and fifty vehicles belonging to commissioners, lawmakers, clerics and others were impounded after being caught by the newly introduced Automatic Number Plate Recognition camera for violating the Lagos State Traffic Law between January and March 2019.
Explaining how the vehicles were impounded for violating the traffic law, Director, Vehicle Inspection Service, Gbolahan Toriola said that the new technology, ANPR camera, captures the number plate of vehicles and records them into its system after which they are synchronized with a database platform already provided.
Mr. Toriola disclosed that when an offender could not be found or does not respond with prompt payment within 7 days, he will be blacklisted and charged to the mobile court in addition with 100 percent increment in the fine.
He stressed that the camera was launched after a number of pilot schemes to test its efficiency considering the nature of Lagos road network.
The ban on Okada and Tricycle should be seen as a measure by Lagos State Government to address prevailing security challenges in the state, as it was done to protect life and properties of Lagosians.
That was the submission of the Chairman of Badagry West Local Council Development Area, LCDA, Mr. Joseph Gbenu Henugbe while reacting to questions from newsmen on the hardship being experienced by Lagosians.
Mr. Gbenu-Henugbe said that though Okada and Tricycles have been embraced by Lagosians as a fast means of transportation due to traffic gridlock, it does not make it the only alternative means of transportation.
The council boss noted that with the massive rehabilitation and construction of roads embarked by the administration of Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu traffic gridlock will be a thing of the past.
The Lagos State Government has advised all travellers returning from China or exposed to travellers from China or any country where cases of Corona-virus have been reported to observe self-quarantine on arrival in Lagos.
The state government in a public advisory issue today through the state Commissioner for Health, Professor Akin Abayomi noted that unsupervised self-quarantine for travellers is the first step in containing Corona-virus in the state.
He said that the aim is to protect individuals who may have been exposed and the general public.
While giving further details on the self-quarantine strategy, the Commissioner explained that persons observing self-quarantine must stay as home during the whole duration and must avoid workplace, minimize contact with visitors, refrain from attending public or social function and must not ride or fly in any mode of public transportation
Professor Abayomi urged citizens to disregard the misinformation as well as any other information about the virus that did not emanate from his office, the state ministry, federal
Hoodlums that currently occupy the present site allocated for the proposed Senior Secondary School in Otumara in Lagos Mainland have been advised to quit the land.
Baale Otumara Two, Chief Kehinde Kalejaiye offered the advice in a chat with newsmen in Lagos.
He said that the proposed land was allocated for six primary schools during the Jakande administration and only two were later constructed on the site.
Chief Kalejaiye explained that he was surprised that the rest of the land was occupied by hoodlums with construction of shanties on the land.
Chief Kalejaiye stated that the defence put up by those opposing the project that the land was allocated for market is untrue.
The traditional ruler commended Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Chairman Lagos Mainland Local government Mr Omolola Essien and Mr. Oladele Adekanye for their support for the programme.
The Lagos State Government has renewed calls for the conservation of wetlands resources in the state because they represent a critical past of the natural environment.
Mr Bello said that Lagos State is seizing the opportunity of the World Wetlands Day to sensitize Lagosians on the importance of wetlands calling for more community participation in wetlands management and conservation in the state.
He stressed that wetlands are a blessing to the communities where they exist because they serve as water reservoirs, fertile for food and vegetable production, handcrafts and shelter adding that they provide abodes for cultural, recreational and tourist activities.
Mr. Bello stated that the state government would set up its monitoring and advocacy programmes and ensure stakeholders collaboration for the protection of the state’s wetland resources.
The Lagos State Chairman of Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria, Alhaji Musa Muhammed has warned members of the association not to take advantage of the ban on okada and tricycles in some parts of the state to hike transport fare.
He gave the warning in a statement issued in Lagos today said that any of its members that caught hike fare would be dealt with in accordance with the association law.
The Senate has directed the Federal Airport authority of Nigeria to beef up security around all the airports in the country to check menace of drug trafficking and other security breaches.
The Senate also urged the agency to always acknowledge only accredited personnel to be allowed in restricted areas of the airport.
The Senate passed the resolution following a motion entitled the need to strengthen security at the airports sponsored by Senator Ibahim Olulegba as other seven lawmakers leading the debate on the motion, senator Olulegbe recalled how a Nigerian Zainab Aliyu was mistakenly arrested by the Saudi drug Enforcement Agency.
He expressed joy that Aliyu and two other Nigerians were saved from execution by the Saudi government due to the prompt interventions that proved that they had no knowledge of the drugs in their luggage.
The continuation of the reconstruction of Lagos-Badagry expressway has begun.
The Deputy Governor, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat flagged-off the next phase of the reconstruction of the road project at the Lagos International Trade Fair Complex along Badagry expressway, Lagos.
Dr. Hamzat said the continuation of the next phase of the road re-construction would be between Agboju and the Lagos International Trade Fair.
He said that the road was to be extended from the original four lanes to ten lanes.
He promised that the project would be completed by December this year.
The Deputy governor however, appealed to road users in the state to show understanding and bear with the inconveniences the road construction might cause them.
He urged them to follow traffic rules and shun the act of driving against traffic otherwise known as ‘one way’ as this would result to traffic gridlock on the portion of roads where road users were meant to manage while the reconstruction last.
The Deputy Governor also announced that the Federal Road Maintenance Agency, FERMA has collaborated with the Lagos State Government to reconstruct Igbor-Elerin to Agbara axis along the Lagos-Badagry expressway.
In a remark, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Works and Infrastructure, Mr. Olujimi Hotonu, explained that ten years into the re-construction of the Lagos-Badagry expressway, LOT, which was Eri-Moore to Mile Two and LOT2A segment One, that is Mile Two to Agboju had been completed.
Lagos State Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has demanded full compensation for the families of the dead and injured in the latest boat capsize that occurred on the state water ways along Badare-Ikorodu route.
In a statement issued by the party’s spokesperson, Mr. Taofik Gani, said the party demanded a thorough probe into the remote causes of the mishap and any one culpable should face prosecution.
The statement said avoidable boat carnage has become a serial occurrence in the state water-ways killing high numbers of people.
It advised Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to declare a state of emergency in the state waterways adding that waterways ambulance, lighting, life jackets and qualified operators should be provided.
The statement also called Governor Sanwo-Olu’s attention to various inadequacies which abound and manifest in the delivery of services to Lagosians.
The significance of entrepreneurs in economic development of a nation cannot be overemphasised.
Director-General of Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria, Dr. Monsur Liman, who was represented by the Director National Broadcast Academy, NBA, Mr. Abiola Ajbola, stated this during the opening ceremony of the Academy’s Batch B Basic Training at GRA Ikeja, Lagos.
Mr. Ajibola who urged the students to strive hard to be self employed considering challenges facing the country pledged to organize a seminar on @opportunity in Digital space’ before the end of the nine weeks training exercise.
He noted that the Academy recognised excellence and warned students to shun cultism and other vices.
Also speaking, representative of NBA Registrar, who is also head of administration, Mrs. Nkiruka Okiche, highlighted some of the rules and regulations and advised them to adhere strictly to them
In a remark, Director of Academic Planning, Mr. Tanko Abdullahi advised the students to leave up to expectations and imbibe the spirit of embarking on research to broaden their horizon.
Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has assured the delegation of the Football governing Body, FIFA, of maximum security, smooth transportation, accommodation and crowd management in Lagos if Nigeria wins the bid to host FIFA Under Twenty Female World Cup.
Governor Sanwo-Olu stated this when the inspection team from FIFA led by the President Nigeria football Federation NFF Amaju Pinnick paid him a courtesy visit at the Lagos House, Ikeja.
Nigeria has put forward the cities, Benin City, Asaba, Uyo for hosting the sixteen nations final.
Governor Sanwo-Olu noted that with the population of over twenty million people the city of Lagos is full of energy, youthfulness and hospitable resourceful and dynamic people as one of the intended host cities for the competition.
According to the Governor, the state is billed to host the biggest global music festival next year and this will further boost and project its tourism, entertainment and cultural potential.
The President of NFF, Amaju Pinnick who thanked governor Sanwo-Olu for encouraging the Male Senior National Team during the last AFCON tournament, said the team is in Lagos to seek support of the government in taking football to the highest level.
Authors in the country have been called to join the wagon of promoting the history, culture and tradition through their works, so as to protect the heritage of the nation.
This call was made by the Governor of Lagos State, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu at the launching of historical book, Matiku, at Akoka, Lagos.
Mr. Sanwo-Olu, who applauded the author of the book for focusing the book on the history of Lagos, noted that it will help call attention to the need to uphold what the state stands for which are excellence, peace, selflessness and unity.
The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Tourism and Culture, Mrs. Abosede Adelafa who represented the Lagos state Governor said having a book that will serve as a reference material for the youth to know about the history, culture and tradition of Lagos is a step forward to support the effort of the government to protect the heritage of the state.
In an address, the author of the book, Mr. Elesin explained that it is the responsibility of all authors to fight history erosion through their works hence his decision to write the book to teach and draw attention to the true identity of Lagos.
He also advised the youths not to forget their history as it is the source of their identity.
The Presidential Election Petition Tribunal PEPT, will hold its inaugural session today at the Abuja Division of the Court of Appeal.
The Tribunal listed four petitions for mention,
The first was filed by Hope Democratic Party, HDP and Mr. Ambrose Owuru, who claimed to be the party’s presidential candidate.
The Second was filed by Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, and its candidate in the election Alhaji Atiku Abubakar.
The third was filed by the Coalition for Change and Mr. Jeff Ojinika who claimed to be the party’s presidential candidate.
The fourth petition was filed by the People’s Democratic Movement, PDM and Pastor Aminchi Habu who claimed to be the party’s presidential candidate.
President Muhammadu Buhari has assured Nigerians that his government will not let them down in providing effective and result-oriented leadership that safeguard and ensures a better life for citizens.
Speaking after attending the daily Tafsir Quranic Interpretations marking the months of Ramadan fast at the stated House Mosque President Buhari said he will keep working to deliver improved life for all Nigerians. A statement by his media aide Mallam Garba Shehu said the President expressed gratitude to all Nigerians for the opportunity to serve a second term in office.
The President urged Muslim faithful that discipline should be their watchword during this Ramadan.
In his remarks, the Chief Imam of the Mosque Sheik Abdulwaheed Suleiman called for prayers to curtail the current security challenges confronting the country.
As the Eid-El-Kabir draws near, Lagosians have expressed their displeasure over the increase in prices of goods in the market which has made life unbearable for them.
Some Lagosians who spoke with Bond FM said lack of fund to meet the excessive increase in prices of goods in the market has made survival difficult for them.
They appealed to the government to put in place measures to ensure free-flow of money in the nation so as to boost economic activity, improving their standard of living.
Akinrogun of Epe Land, Otunba Denge Anifowose has urged Nigerians to support President Muhammadu Buhari in his quest to transform the country.
He said that President Buhari has good intentions to make the country better which helped to win another election.
Otunba Anifowose said the second term of President Muhammadu Buhari would witness rapid development because he had laid a solid foundation for the country.
He also commended Lagosians for voting for Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu as Governor of the state, noted that Mr. Sanwo-Olu has experience and skills that would help the state to be an investors friendly.
Otunba Anifowosoe while wishing outgoing Governor Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode well in future endeavours said that Mr. Sanwo-Olu would continue from where he stopped to build on the legacy of the founding fathers of Lagos State.
Plans are underway by the Lagos State Government, to a General Hospital in the Amuwo Odofin Council Area.
An Assistant Director of Medical Services at the State Health Service Commission, Dr. Olufunmilola Esho, stated this at a stakeholders meeting of the Amuwo-Odofin Maternal and Child Centre.
A statement issued by Dr. Esho says, the state government was planning to build the hospital, so as to cater for the growing population of residents in the area.
The medical expert however made a renewed call on corporate bodies and wealthy individuals in the country to support the government in providing qualitative and affordable health care for the people.
Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria, TRCN, says there is no going back on the December 31st deadline to flush out unqualified teachers from Nigerian schools. The Registrar of the council, Professor Segun Ajiboye who made this known to newsmen in Ibadan, said the National Council of Education had set the deadline for all teachers in Nigeria to get registered, qualified and licensed by the TRCN.
According to him, the Federal Ministry of Education had on June 7 2019, sent a circular to all Principals on the December 31 deadline for unqualified teachers to leave the teaching profession in the country. The TRCN registrar noted that Nigeria needs quality teachers to deliver quality education.
He urged those that had not registered to take the opportunity of the qualifying tests to do so before the deadline.
Stakeholders in the sporting industry in the country have been charged to be more active in rescuing the youth from drug abuse and trafficking through sports especially at the grassroots level as government alone cannot fight the menace.
The plea was made by a chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC in Lagos State Mr. Wale Adelana on the occasion of international day against drug abuse and trafficking, set aside by the United Nations.
Mr. Adelana said it became imperative for all well-meaning Nigerians to team up and find lasting solutions to the abuse of drugs especially among teenagers as they are the future of the nation.
He also appealed to parents and guardians to be watchful of friends their children are moving with.
The need for Nigerians to take their history and culture heritage seriously by documenting them so as to preserve it for generations to come, has been emphasized.
The Deputy Governor of Ogun State, Mrs. Nayimot Oyedele stressed this a book launch on “Ota Awori Kingdom” in Maryland, Ikeja.
Mrs. Oyedele who lauded the authors of the book for deeming it fit to give proper documentation to the history of Awori’s said it will be wise for other authors in the country to join the wagon of history documentation to preserve the Nigerian history.
In his address, the Olota of Ota, Oba Adeyemi Abudukabir who said that Ota is the foremost town among the Awori people, stated that the documentation of the history of Awori’s is apt for the preservation of history.
On his part, the Senator representing Ogun West, Senator Olu Odebiyi who called on the stakeholders in education to give utmost priority to history in the nation’s educational curriculum, urged parents not to fail to project and teach their children.
On his part, a co-author of the book, Mr. Frank Akinola said the need to give the people of Awori Land an understanding of their origin and cultural heritage, inspired him to read the book.
Reports reaching our newsroom, says a three-story building has collapsed at a popular farm yard in Fagba area, off Iju road of Lagos.
According to the report, affected people have been evacuated while the injured people are rescued and responding to treatment.
Though no casualty was recorded all agencies in charge of disaster management are reported to be on ground at the site.
Report revealed that the building will be pulled to ground zero for safety of the people living in the area.
