Facebook's role in Brexit - and the threat to democracy.
So, on the day after the Brexit vote, in June 2016, when Britain woke up to the shock of discovering that we're leaving the European Union, my editor at the "Observer" newspaper in the UK asked me to go back to South Wales, where I grew up, and to write a report.
And so I went to a town called Ebbw Vale.
Here it is.
It's in the South Wales Valleys, which is this quite special place.
So it's had this very, sort of rich, working-class culture, and it's famous for its Welsh male voice choirs and rugby and its coal.
But when I was a teenager, the coal mines and the steelworks closed, and the entire area was devastated.
And I went there because it had one of the highest "Leave" votes in the country.
Sixty-two percent of the people here voted to leave the European Union.
And I wanted to know why.
When I got there, I was just a bit taken aback, because the last time I went to Ebbw Vale, it looked like this.
And now, it looks like this.
This is a new 33-million-pound college of further education that was mostly funded by the European Union.
And this is the new sports center that's at the middle of 350-million-pound regeneration project that's being funded by the European Union.
And this is the new 77-million-pound road-improvement scheme, and there's a new train line, a new railway station, and they're all being funded by the European Union.
And it's not as if any of this is a secret, because there's big signs like this everywhere.
[EU Funds: Investing in Wales]
I had this sort of weird sense of unreality, walking around the town.
And it came to a head when I met this young man in front of the sports center.
And he told me that he had voted to leave, because the European Union had done nothing for him.
He was fed up with it.
And all around town, people told me the same thing.
They said that they wanted to take back control, which was one of the slogans in the campaign.
And they told me that they were most fed up with the immigrants and with the refugees.
They'd had enough.
Which was odd.
Because walking around, I didn't meet any immigrants or refugees.
I met one Polish woman who told me she was practically the only foreigner in town.
And when I checked the figures, I discovered that Ebbw Vale actually has one of the lowest rates of immigration in the country.
And so I was just a bit baffled, because I couldn't really understand where people were getting their information from.
Because it was the right-wing tabloid newspapers which printed all these stories about immigration.
And this is a very much left-wing Labour stronghold.
But then after the article came out, this woman got in touch with me.
And she was from Ebbw Vale, and she told me about all this stuff that she'd seen on Facebook.
I was like, "What stuff?
" And she said it was all this quite scary stuff about immigration, and especially about Turkey.
So I tried to find it.
But there was nothing there.
Because there's no archive of ads that people had seen or what had been pushed into their news feeds.
No trace of anything, gone completely dark.
And this referendum that will have this profound effect forever on Britain -- it's already had a profound effect: the Japanese car manufacturers that came to Wales and the north east to replace the mining jobs -- they are already going because of Brexit.
And this entire referendum took place in darkness, because it took place on Facebook.
And what happens on Facebook stays on Facebook, because only you see your news feed, and then it vanishes, so it's impossible to research anything.
So we have no idea who saw what ads or what impact they had, or what data was used to target these people.
Or even who placed the ads, or how much money was spent, or even what nationality they were.
But Facebook does.
Facebook has these answers, and it's refused to give them to us.
Our parliament has asked Mark Zuckerberg multiple times to come to Britain and to give us these answers.
And every single time, he's refused.
And you have to wonder why.
Because what I and other journalists have uncovered is that multiple crimes took place during the referendum.
And they took place on Facebook.
It's because in Britain, we limit the amount of money that you can spend in an election.
And it's because in the 19th century, people would walk around with literally wheelbarrows of cash and just buy voters.
So we passed these strict laws to stop that from happening.
But those laws don't work anymore.
This referendum took place almost entirely online.
And you can spend any amount of money on Facebook or on Google or on YouTube ads and nobody will know, because they're black boxes.
And this is what happened.
We've actually got no idea of the full extent of it.
But we do know that in the last days before the Brexit vote, the official "Vote Leave" campaign laundered nearly three quarters of a million pounds through another campaign entity that our electoral commission has ruled was illegal, and it's referred it to the police.
And with this illegal cash, "Vote Leave" unleashed a fire hose of disinformation.
Ads like this.
[Turkey's 76m people joining the EU]
This is a lie, it's a total lie.
Turkey is not joining the European Union.
There's not even any discussions of it joining the European Union.
And most of us, we never saw these ads, because we were not the target of them.
"Vote Leave" identified a tiny sliver of people who it identified as persuadable, and they saw them.
And the only reason we are seeing these now is because parliament forced Facebook to hand them over.
And maybe you think, "Well, it was just a bit of overspending.
It's a few lies.
" But this was the biggest electoral fraud in Britain for 100 years.
In a once-in-a-generation vote that hinged upon just one percent of the electorate.
And it was just one of the crimes that took place in the referendum.
There was another group, which was headed by this man, Nigel Farage, the one to the right of Trump.
And his group, "Leave.
EU" -- it also broke the law.
It broke British electoral laws and British data laws, and it's also being referred to the police.
And this man, Arron Banks, he funded this campaign.
And in a completely separate case, he's being referred to our National Crime Agency, our equivalent of the FBI, because our electoral commission has concluded they don't know where his money came from.
Or if it was even British.
And I'm not even going to go into the lies that Arron Banks has told about his covert relationship with the Russian government.
Or the weird timing of Nigel Farage's meetings with Julian Assange and with Trump's buddy, Roger Stone, now indicted, immediately before two massive WikiLeaks dumps, both of which happened to benefit Donald Trump.
But I will tell you that Brexit and Trump were intimately entwined.
This man told me that Brexit was the petri dish for Trump.
And we know it's the same people, the same companies, the same data, the same techniques, the same use of hate and fear.
This is what they were posting on Facebook.
And I don't even want to call this a lie, [Immigration without assimilation equals invasion] because it feels more like a hate crime to me.
I don't have to tell you that hate and fear are being sown online all across the world.
Not just in Britain and America, but in France and in Hungary and Brazil and Myanmar and New Zealand.
And we know there is this dark undertow which is connecting us all globally.
And it is flowing via the technology platforms.
But we only see a tiny amount of what's going on on the surface.
And I only found out anything about this dark underbelly because I started looking into Trump's relationship to Farage, into a company called Cambridge Analytica.
And I spent months tracking down an ex-employee, Christopher Wiley.
And he told me how this company, that worked for both Trump and Brexit, had profiled people politically in order to understand their individual fears, to better target them with Facebook ads.
And it did this by illicitly harvesting the profiles of 87 million people from Facebook.
It took an entire year's work to get Christopher on the record.
And I had to turn myself from a feature writer into an investigative reporter to do it.
And he was extraordinarily brave, because the company is owned by Robert Mercer, the billionaire who bankrolled Trump, and he threatened to sue us multiple times, to stop us from publishing.
But we finally got there, and we were one day ahead of publication.
We got another legal threat.
Not from Cambridge Analytica this time, but from Facebook.
It told us that if we publish, they would sue us.
We did it anyway.
Facebook, you were on the wrong side of history in that.
And you were on the wrong side of history in this -- in refusing to give us the answers that we need.
And that is why I am here.
To address you directly, the gods of Silicon Valley.
Mark Zuckerberg and Sheryl Sandberg and Larry Page and Sergey Brin and Jack Dorsey, and your employees and your investors, too.
Because 100 years ago, the biggest danger in the South Wales coal mines was gas.
Silent and deadly and invisible.
It's why they sent the canaries down first to check the air.
And in this massive, global, online experiment that we are all living through, we in Britain are the canary.
We are what happens to a western democracy when a hundred years of electoral laws are disrupted by technology.
Our democracy is broken, our laws don't work anymore, and it's not me saying this, it's our parliament published a report saying this.
This technology that you have invented has been amazing.
But now, it's a crime scene.
And you have the evidence.
And it is not enough to say that you will do better in the future.
Because to have any hope of stopping this from happening again, we have to know the truth.
And maybe you think, "Well, it was just a few ads.
And people are smarter than that, right?
" To which I would say, "Good luck with that.
" Because what the Brexit vote demonstrates is that liberal democracy is broken.
And you broke it.
This is not democracy -- spreading lies in darkness, paid for with illegal cash, from God knows where.
It's subversion, and you are accessories to it.
Our parliament has been the first in the world to try to hold you to account, and it's failed.
You are literally beyond the reach of British law -- not just British laws, this is nine parliaments, nine countries are represented here, who Mark Zuckerberg refused to come and give evidence to.
And what you don't seem to understand is that this is bigger than you.
And it's bigger than any of us.
And it is not about left or right or "Leave" or "Remain" or Trump or not.
It's about whether it's actually possible to have a free and fair election ever again.
Because as it stands, I don't think it is.
And so my question to you is, is this what you want?
Is this how you want history to remember you: as the handmaidens to authoritarianism that is on the rise all across the world?
Because you set out to connect people.
And you are refusing to acknowledge that the same technology is now driving us apart.
And my question to everybody else is, is this what we want: to let them get away with it, and to sit back and play with our phones, as this darkness falls?
The history of the South Wales Valleys is of a fight for rights.
And this is not a drill -- it's a point of inflection.
Democracy is not guaranteed, and it is not inevitable, and we have to fight and we have to win and we cannot let these tech companies have this unchecked power.
It's up to us -- you, me and all of us.
We are the ones who have to take back control.
How we can make energy more affordable for low-income families.
So, as a child, I used to spend all of my time at my great-grandmother's house.
On hot, humid, summer days, I would dash across the floor and stick my face in front of her only air conditioner.
But I didn't realize that that simple experience, though brief, was a privileged one in our community.
Growing up, stories of next-door neighbors having to set up fake energy accounts or having to steal energy seemed normal to me.
During the winter, struggling to get warm, my neighbors would have no choice but to bypass the meter after their heat was shut off, just to keep their family comfortable for one more day.
These kinds of dangerous incidents can take root when people are faced with impossible choices.
In the US, the average American spends three percent of their income on energy.
In contrast, low-income and rural populations can spend 20, even 30 percent of their income on energy.
In 2015, this caused over 25 million people to skip meals to provide power to their homes.
This is when energy becomes a burden.
But energy burdens are so much more than just a number.
They present impossible and perilous choices: Do you take your child to get her flu medicine, or do you feed her?
Or do you keep her warm?
It's an impossible choice, and nearly every month, seven million people choose between medicine and energy.
This exposes a much larger and systemic issue.
Families with high energy burdens are disproportionately people of color, who spend more per square foot than their white counterparts.
But it's also nurses, veterans and even schoolteachers who fall into the mass of 37 million people a year who are unable to afford energy for their most basic needs.
As a result, those with high energy burdens have a greater likelihood of conditions like heart disease and asthma.
Look -- given our rockets to Mars and our pocket-sized AI, we have the tools to address these systemic inequities.
The technology is here.
Cost of renewables, insulation, microgrids and smart home technology are all decreasing.
However, even as we approach cost parity, the majority of those who own solar earn much more than the average American.
This is why, when I was 22, I founded the nonprofit RETI.
Our mission is to alleviate energy burdens by working with communities, utilities and government agencies alike to provide equitable access to clean energy, energy efficiency and energy technology.
But there's no one way to solve this.
I believe in the power of local communities, in the transforming effect of relationships.
So we start by working directly with the communities that have the highest energy burdens.
We host workshops and events for communities to learn about energy poverty, and how making even small updates to their homes like better insulation for windows and water heaters can go a long way to maximize efficiency.
We're connecting neighborhoods to community solar and spearheading community-led smart home research and installation programs to help families bring down their energy bills.
We're even working directly with elected officials, advocating for more equitable pricing, because to see this vision of energy equity and resilience succeed, we have to work together sustainably.
Now, the US spends over three billion a year on energy bill payment assistance.
And these programs do help millions of people, but they're only able to help a fraction of those in need.
In fact, there is a 47-billion-dollar home-energy affordability gap, so assistance alone is not sustainable.
But by building energy equity and resilience into our communities, we can assure fair and impartial access to energy that is clean, reliable and affordable.
At scale, microgrid technology, clean technology and energy efficiency dramatically improve public health.
And for those with high energy burdens, it can help them reclaim 20 percent of their income -- 20 percent of a person's income who's struggling to make ends meet.
This is life-changing.
This is an opportunity for families to use their energy savings to sponsor their future.
I think back to my great-grandmother and her neighbors, the impossible choices that they had to make and the effect it had on our whole community.
But this is not just about them.
There are millions nationwide having to make the same impossible choices today.
And I know high energy burdens are a tremendous barrier to overcome, but through relationships with communities and technology, we have the paths to overcome them.
And when we do, we will all be more resilient.
Thank you.
Can we stop climate change by removing CO2 from the air?
To avoid dangerous climate change, we're going to need to cut emissions rapidly.
That should be a pretty uncontentious statement, certainly with this audience.
But here's something that's slightly more contentious: it's not going to be enough.
We will munch our way through our remaining carbon budget for one and a half degrees in a few short years, and the two degree budget in about two decades.
We need to not only cut emissions extremely rapidly, we also need to take carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere.
Thank you.
I work assessing a whole range of these proposed techniques to see if they can work.
We could use plants to take CO2 out, and then store it in trees, in the soil, deep underground or in the oceans.
We could build large machines, so-called artificial trees, that will scrub CO2 from the air.
For these ideas to be feasible, we need to understand whether they can be applied at a vast scale in a way that is safe, economic and socially acceptable.
All of these ideas come with tradeoffs.
None of them are perfect, but many have potential.
It's unlikely that any one of them will solve it on its own.
There is no silver bullet, but potentially together, they may form the silver buckshot that we need to stop climate change in its tracks.
I'm working independently on one particular idea which uses natural gas to generate electricity in a way that takes carbon dioxide out of the air.
How does that work?
So the Origen Power Process feeds natural gas into a fuel cell.
About half the chemical energy is converted into electricity, and the remainder into heat, which is used to break down limestone into lime and carbon dioxide. 
Now at this point, you're probably thinking that I'm nuts.
It's actually generating carbon dioxide.
But the key point is, all of the carbon dioxide generated, both from the fuel cell and from the lime kiln, is pure, and that's really important, because it means you can either use that carbon dioxide or you can store it away deep underground at low cost. 
And then the lime that you produce can be used in industrial processes, and in being used, it scrubs CO2 out of the air.
Overall, the process is carbon negative.
It removes carbon dioxide from the air.
If you normally generate electricity from natural gas, you emit about 400 grams of CO2 into the air for every kilowatt-hour.
With this process, that figure is minus 600.
At the moment, power generation is responsible for about a quarter of all carbon dioxide emissions.
Hypothetically, if you replaced all power generation with this process, then you would not only eliminate all of the emissions from power generation but you would start removing emissions from other sectors as well, potentially cutting 60 percent of overall carbon emissions.
You could even use the lime to add it directly to seawater to counteract ocean acidification, one of the other issues that is caused by CO2 in the atmosphere.
In fact, you get more bang for your buck.
You absorb about twice as much carbon dioxide when you add it to seawater as when you use it industrially.
But this is where it gets really complicated.
While counteracting ocean acidification is a good thing, we don't fully understand what the environmental consequences are, and so we need to assess whether this treatment is actually better than the disease that it is seeking to cure.
We need to put in place step-by-step governance for experiments to assess this safely.
And the scale: to avoid dangerous climate change, we are going to need to remove trillions -- and yes, that's trillions with a T -- trillions of tons of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere in the decades ahead.
It will cost a few percent of GDP -- think defense-sized expenditure, lots of industrial activity and inevitably harmful side effects.
But if the scale seems enormous, it is only because of the scale of the problem that we are seeking to solve.
It's enormous as well.
We can no longer avoid these thorny issues.
We face risks whichever way we turn: a world changed by climate change or a world changed by climate change and our efforts to counter climate change.
Would that it were not so, but we can no longer afford to close our eyes, block our ears, and say la-la-la.
We need to grow up and face the consequences of our actions.
Does talk of curing climate change undermine the will to cut emissions?
This is a real concern, so we need to emphasize the paramount importance of reducing emissions and how speculative these ideas are.
But having done so, we still need to examine them.
Can we cure climate change?
I don't know, but we certainly can't if we don't try.
We need ambition without arrogance.
We need the ambition to restore the atmosphere, to draw down carbon dioxide back to a level that is compatible with a stable climate and healthy oceans.
This will be an enormous undertaking.
You could describe it as a cathedral project.
Those involved at the outset may draft the plans and dig the foundations, but they will not raise the spire to its full height.
That task, that privilege, belongs to our descendants.
None of us will see that day, but we must start in the hope that future generations will be able to finish the job.
So, do you want to change the world?
I don't.
I do not seek the change the world, but rather keep it as it's meant to be.
Thank you.
Chris Anderson: Thanks.
I just want to ask you a couple of other questions.
Tell us a bit more about this idea of putting lime in the ocean.
I mean, on the face of it, it's pretty compelling -- anti-ocean acidification -- and it absorbs more CO2.
You talked about, we need to do an experiment on this.
What would a responsible experiment look like?
Tim Kruger: So I think you need to do a series of experiments, but you need to do them just very small stage-by-stage.
In the same way, when you're trialing a new drug, you wouldn't just go into human trials straight off.
You would do a small experiment.
And so the first things to do are experiments entirely on land, in special containers, away from the environment.
And then once you are confident that that can be done safely, you move to the next stage.
If you're not confident, you don't.
But step by step.
CA: And who would fund such experiments?
Because they kind of impact the whole planet at some level.
Is that why nothing is happening on this?
TK: So I think you can do small-scale experiments in national waters, and then it's probably the requirement of national funders to do that.
But ultimately, if you wanted to counter ocean acidification in this way on a global scale, you would need to do it in international waters, and then you would need to have an international community working on it.
CA: Even in national waters, you know, the ocean's all connected.
That lime is going to get out there.
And people feel outraged about doing experiments on the planet, as we've heard.
How do you counter that?
TK: I think you touch on something which is really important.
It's about a social license to operate.
And I think it may be that it is impossible to do, but we need to have the courage to try, to move this forward, to see what we can do, and to engage openly.
And we need to engage with people in a transparent way.
We need to ask them beforehand.
And I think if we ask them, we have to be open to the possibility that the answer will come back, "No, don't do it.
CA: Thanks so much.
That was really fascinating.
TK: Thank you.
A comprehensive, neighborhood-based response to COVID-19
Good evening.
It is such a blessing to work at the Harlem Children's Zone, an African-American-led organization that has pioneered the field of comprehensive place-based services, from cradle to career.
And that word, "comprehensive," is so key to what we do.
You know, most interventions focus on one piece of a complicated, giant puzzle.
But that's not enough to solve the puzzle.
You don't solve education without understanding the home context or the home environment of our young scholar.
Or the broader context of health, nutrition or criminal justice.
The unit of change for us is not the individual child, it's the entire neighborhood.
You have to do multiple things at the same time.
And we have 20 years of data to prove that this works.
We've had 7,000 graduates of our baby college, we've eliminated the Black-white achievement gap in our schools.
We've reduced obesity rates in our health programs and have close to 1,000 students enrolled in college.
We weave together a net of services so tightly, so that no one will fall through the cracks.
And we've inspired global practitioners.
We've had over 500-plus communities across the US and 70-plus countries come and visit us to learn our model.
You see, the problems of the globe, and the problems of the world are not neatly siloed into buckets.
So therefore the solutions must be comprehensive, they must be holistic.
And now we're in the midst of a global pandemic.
COVID-19 has revealed to us what we always knew to be true.
The poorest among us pay the highest price with their lives and their livelihood.
And that's playing out every day in the African American community, where we're 3.6 times more likely to die of COVID than our white counterparts.
We're seeing those health disparities on the ground in New York City, our nation's epicenter.
And to compound the impact of the health disparities, there's significant economic devastation, where one in four of our families in Harlem report food insecurity, and 57 percent report a loss of income or a loss of their job.
But to better understand the work of the Harlem Children's Zone, I want to share a story with you, about a second-grade scholar named Sean.
Sean is a beautiful Black boy whose smile would light up any room that he's in.
And when quarantine began in March, we noticed that Sean wasn't attending virtual school.
And after some investigation, we've come to learn that Sean's mom was hospitalized due to COVID.
So he was at home with grandma and his baby sibling, who was his only viable support system, since Sean's father is incarcerated.
Grandma was struggling.
There wasn't much food in the household, limited diapers, and Sean didn't even have a computer. 
When mom was released from the hospital, their challenges deepened, because they could no longer stay with grandma, due to her preexisting health conditions.
So Sean, his baby sibling and his mom had to go to a shelter.
Sean's story is not atypical at the Harlem Children's Zone.
We know Sean and millions like him all across the country deserve to have everything that this world has to offer, without inequality robbing them of that opportunity.
All the result of racism and historical and systemic underinvestment are now compounded by COVID-19.
Our comprehensive model uniquely positions the Harlem Children's Zone in the fight of COVID.
The success that we have on the ground in Harlem makes it imperative, and it is our responsibility to share what we know works with the country.
We have developed a comprehensive COVID-19 relief and recovery response for our community, that was surfaced from our community, focused on five primary areas of need, and already servicing families like Sean's.
They are the following.
One, emergency relief funds.
We know that our families need cash in their hands right now.
Two, protecting our most vulnerable.
We know our families need access to essential goods and information.
So that is food, that's masks, that's a curated resource list and public health campaigns.
Three, bridging the digital divide.
We believe that internet is a fundamental right.
So we need to ensure our families have connectivity, and also all school-age children in a household have the proper learning devices.
Four, zero learning loss.
We know that there's a generation of students at risk of losing an entire year of their education.
We need to make sure that we are providing high-quality virtual programing, in addition to having safe reentry planned for school reentry.
And five, mitigating the mental health crisis.
There's a generation at risk of having PTSD, due to the massive amounts of toxic stress.
We need to ensure that our families have access to telehealth and other virtual supports.
We have six amazing partners across six cities in the United States that are adopting our model for their own context in their community.
They are Oakland, Minneapolis, Chicago, Detroit, Newark and Atlanta.
In addition to those partners, we have three national partners, who will be sharing our model and sharing our strategies through their network, in addition to amplifying our impact by policy advocacy.
We will have impact on three levels.
Individual impact on the ground in Harlem, across a number of outcomes in education, in health, in economics, reaching 30,000 people.
There's community-level impact across six cities, again through our amazing partners, that will reach an additional 70,000 people.
And then national impact, not only through policy advocacy, but through capacity building at scale.
Our answer to COVID-19, the despair and inequities plaguing our communities, is targeting neighborhoods with comprehensive services.
We have certainly not lost hope.
And we invite you to join us on the front lines of this war.
Thank you.
Why civilians suffer more once a war is over
So have you ever wondered what it would be like to live in a place with no rules?
That sounds pretty cool.
You wake up one morning, however, and you discover that the reason there are no rules is because there's no government, and there are no laws.
In fact, all social institutions have disappeared.
So there's no schools, there's no hospitals, there's no police, there's no banks, there's no athletic clubs, there's no utilities.
Well, I know a little bit about what this is like, because when I was a medical student in 1999, I worked in a refugee camp in the Balkans during the Kosovo War.
When the war was over, I got permission -- unbelievably -- from my medical school to take some time off and follow some of the families that I had befriended in the camp back to their village in Kosovo, and understand how they navigated life in this postwar setting.
Postwar Kosovo was a very interesting place because NATO troops were there, mostly to make sure the war didn't break out again.
But other than that, it was actually a lawless place, and almost every social institution, both public and private, had been destroyed.
So I can tell you that when you go into one of these situations and settings, it is absolutely thrilling for about 30 minutes, because that's about how long it takes before you run into a situation where you realize how incredibly vulnerable you are.
For me, that moment came when I had to cross the first checkpoint, and I realized as I drove up that I would be negotiating passage through this checkpoint with a heavily armed individual who, if he decided to shoot me right then and there, actually wouldn't be doing anything illegal.
But the sense of vulnerability that I had was absolutely nothing in comparison to the vulnerability of the families that I got to know over that year.
You see, life in a society where there are no social institutions is riddled with danger and uncertainty, and simple questions like, "What are we going to eat tonight?" are very complicated to answer.
Questions about security, when you don't have any security systems, are terrifying.
Is that altercation I had with the neighbor down the block going to turn into a violent episode that will end my life or my family's life?
Health concerns when there is no health system are also terrifying.
I listened as many families had to sort through questions like, "My infant has a fever.
What am I going to do?
" "My sister, who is pregnant, is bleeding.
What should I do?
Who should I turn to?
" "Where are the doctors, where are the nurses?
If I could find one, are they trustworthy?
How will I pay them?
In what currency will I pay them?
" "If I need medications, where will I find them?
If I take those medications, are they actually counterfeits?
" And on and on.
So for life in these settings, the dominant theme, the dominant feature of life, is the incredible vulnerability that people have to manage day in and day out, because of the lack of social systems.
And it actually turns out that this feature of life is incredibly difficult to explain and be understood by people who are living outside of it.
I discovered this when I left Kosovo.
I came back to Boston, I became a physician, I became a global public health policy researcher.
I joined the Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women's Hospital Division of Global Health.
And I, as a researcher, really wanted to get started on this problem right away.
I was like, "How do we reduce the crushing vulnerability of people living in these types of fragile settings?
Is there any way we can start to think about how to protect and quickly recover the institutions that are critical to survival, like the health system?
" And I have to say, I had amazing colleagues.
But one interesting thing about it was, this was sort of an unusual question for them.
They were kind of like, "Oh, if you work in war, doesn't that mean you work on refugee camps, and you work on documenting mass atrocities?" -- which is, by the way, very, very, very important.
So it took me a while to explain why I was so passionate about this issue, until about six years ago.
That's when this landmark study that looked at and described the public health consequences of war was published.
They came to an incredible, provocative conclusion.
These researchers concluded that the vast majority of death and disability from war happens after the cessation of conflict.
So the most dangerous time to be a person living in a conflict-affected state is after the cessation of hostilities; it's after the peace deal has been signed.
It's when that political solution has been achieved.
That seems so puzzling, but of course it's not, because war kills people by robbing them of their clinics, of their hospitals, of their supply chains.
Their doctors are targeted, are killed; they're on the run.
And more invisible and yet more deadly is the destruction of the health governance institutions and their finances.
So this is really not surprising at all to me.
But what is surprising and somewhat dismaying, is how little impact this insight has had, in terms of how we think about human suffering and war.
Let me give you a couple examples.
Last year, you may remember, Ebola hit the West African country of Liberia.
There was a lot of reporting about this group, Doctors Without Borders, sounding the alarm and calling for aid and assistance.
But not a lot of that reporting answered the question: Why is Doctors Without Borders even in Liberia?
Doctors Without Borders is an amazing organization, dedicated and designed to provide emergency care in war zones.
Liberia's civil war had ended in 2003 -- that was 11 years before Ebola even struck.
When Ebola struck Liberia, there were less than 50 doctors in the entire country of 4.5 million people.
Doctors Without Borders is in Liberia because Liberia still doesn't really have a functioning health system, 11 years later.
When the earthquake hit Haiti in 2010, the outpouring of international aid was phenomenal.
But did you know that only two percent of that funding went to rebuild Haitian public institutions, including its health sector?
From that perspective, Haitians continue to die from the earthquake even today.
I recently met this gentleman.
This is Dr. Nezar Ismet.
He's the Minister of Health in the northern autonomous region of Iraq, in Kurdistan.
Here he is announcing that in the last nine months, his country, his region, has increased from four million people to five million people.
That's a 25 percent increase.
Thousands of these new arrivals have experienced incredible trauma.
His doctors are working 16-hour days without pay.
His budget has not increased by 25 percent; it has decreased by 20 percent, as funding has flowed to security concerns and to short-term relief efforts.
When his health sector fails -- and if history is any guide, it will -- how do you think that's going to influence the decision making of the five million people in his region as they think about whether they should flee that type of vulnerable living situation?
So as you can see, this is a frustrating topic for me, and I really try to understand: Why the reluctance to protect and support indigenous health systems and security systems?
I usually tier two concerns, two arguments.
The first concern is about corruption, and the concern that people in these settings are corrupt and they are untrustworthy.
And I will admit that I have met unsavory characters working in health sectors in these situations.
But I will tell you that the opposite is absolutely true in every case I have worked on, from Afghanistan to Libya, to Kosovo, to Haiti, to Liberia -- I have met inspiring people, who, when the chips were down for their country, they risked everything to save their health institutions.
The trick for the outsider who wants to help is identifying who those individuals are, and building a pathway for them to lead.
That is exactly what happened in Afghanistan.
One of the unsung and untold success stories of our nation-building effort in Afghanistan involved the World Bank in 2002 investing heavily in identifying, training and promoting Afghani health sector leaders.
These health sector leaders have pulled off an incredible feat in Afghanistan.
They have aggressively increased access to health care for the majority of the population.
They are rapidly improving the health status of the Afghan population, which used to be the worst in the world.
In fact, the Afghan Ministry of Health does things that I wish we would do in America.
They use things like data to make policy.
It's incredible.
The other concern I hear a lot about is: "We just can't afford it, we just don't have the money.
It's just unsustainable.
" I would submit to you that the current situation and the current system we have is the most expensive, inefficient system we could possibly conceive of.
The current situation is that when governments like the US -- or, let's say, the collection of governments that make up the European Commission -- every year, they spend 15 billion dollars on just humanitarian and emergency and disaster relief worldwide.
That's nothing about foreign aid, that's just disaster relief.
Ninety-five percent of it goes to international relief agencies, that then have to import resources into these areas, and knit together some type of temporary health system, let's say, which they then dismantle and send away when they run out of money.
So our job, it turns out, is very clear.
We, as the global health community policy experts, our first job is to become experts in how to monitor the strengths and vulnerabilities of health systems in threatened situations.
And that's when we see doctors fleeing, when we see health resources drying up, when we see institutions crumbling -- that's the emergency.
That's when we need to sound the alarm and wave our arms.
Not now.
Everyone can see that's an emergency, they don't need us to tell them that.
Number two: places like where I work at Harvard need to take their cue from the World Bank experience in Afghanistan, and we need to -- and we will -- build robust platforms to support health sector leaders like these.
These people risk their lives.
I think we can match their courage with some support.
Number three: we need to reach out and make new partnerships.
At our global health center, we have launched a new initiative with NATO and other security policy makers to explore with them what they can do to protect health system institutions during deployments.
We want them to see that protecting health systems and other critical social institutions is an integral part of their mission.
It's not just about avoiding collateral damage; it's about winning the peace.
But the most important partner we need to engage is you, the American public, and indeed, the world public.
Because unless you understand the value of social institutions, like health systems in these fragile settings, you won't support efforts to save them.
You won't click on that article that talks about "Hey, all those doctors are on the run in country X.
I wonder what that means.
I wonder what that means for that health system's ability to, let's say, detect influenza.
" "Hmm, it's probably not good.
" That's what I'd tell you.
Up on the screen, I've put up my three favorite American institution defenders and builders.
Over here is George C. Marshall, he was the guy that proposed the Marshall Plan to save all of Europe's economic institutions after World War II.
And this Eleanor Roosevelt.
Her work on human rights really serves as the foundation for all of our international human rights organizations.
Then my big favorite is Ben Franklin, who did many things in terms of creating institutions, but was the midwife of our constitution.
And I would say to you that these are folks who, when our country was threatened, or our world was threatened, they didn't retreat.
They didn't talk about building walls.
They talked about building institutions to protect human security, for their generation and also for ours.
And I think our generation should do the same.
Thank you.
Lessons from the 1918 flu
So the first question is, why do we need to even worry about a pandemic threat?
What is it that we're concerned about?
When I say "we," I'm at the Council on Foreign Relations.
We're concerned in the national security community, and of course in the biology community and the public health community.
While globalization has increased travel, it's made it necessary that everybody be everywhere, all the time, all over the world.
And that means that your microbial hitchhikers are moving with you.
So a plague outbreak in Surat, India becomes not an obscure event, but a globalized event -- a globalized concern that has changed the risk equation.
Katrina showed us that we cannot completely depend on government to have readiness in hand, to be capable of handling things.
Indeed, an outbreak would be multiple Katrinas at once.
Our big concern at the moment is a virus called H5N1 flu -- some of you call it bird flu -- which first emerged in southern China, in the mid-1990s, but we didn't know about it until 1997.
At the end of last Christmas only 13 countries had seen H5N1.
But we're now up to 55 countries in the world, have had this virus emerge, in either birds, or people or both.
In the bird outbreaks we now can see that pretty much the whole world has seen this virus except the Americas.
And I'll get into why we've so far been spared in a moment.
In domestic birds, especially chickens, it's 100 percent lethal.
It's one of the most lethal things we've seen in circulation in the world in any recent centuries.
And we've dealt with it by killing off lots and lots and lots of chickens, and unfortunately often not reimbursing the peasant farmers with the result that there's cover-up.
It's also carried on migration patterns of wild migratory aquatic birds.
There has been this centralized event in a place called Lake Chenghai, China.
Two years ago the migrating birds had a multiple event where thousands died because of a mutation occurring in the virus, which made the species range broaden dramatically.
So that birds going to Siberia, to Europe, and to Africa carried the virus, which had not previously been possible.
We're now seeing outbreaks in human populations -- so far, fortunately, small events, tiny outbreaks, occasional clusters.
The virus has mutated dramatically in the last two years to form two distinct families, if you will, of the H5N1 viral tree with branches in them, and with different attributes that are worrying.
So what's concerning us?
Well, first of all, at no time in history have we succeeded in making in a timely fashion, a specific vaccine for more than 260 million people.
It's not going to do us very much good in a global pandemic.
You've heard about the vaccine we're stockpiling.
But nobody believes it will actually be particularly effective if we have a real outbreak.
So one thought is: after 9/11, when the airports closed, our flu season was delayed by two weeks.
So the thought is, hey, maybe what we should do is just immediately -- we hear there is H5N1 spreading from human to human, the virus has mutated to be a human-to-human transmitter -- let's shut down the airports.
However, huge supercomputer analyses, done of the likely effectiveness of this, show that it won't buy us much time at all.
And of course it will be hugely disruptive in preparation plans.
For example, all masks are made in China.
How do you get them mobilized around the world if you've shut all the airports down?
How do you get the vaccines moved around the world and the drugs moved, and whatever may or not be available that would work.
So it turns out that shutting down the airports is counterproductive.
We're worried because this virus, unlike any other flu we've ever studied, can be transmitted by eating raw meat of the infected animals.
We've seen transmission to wild cats and domestic cats, and now also domestic pet dogs.
And in experimental feedings to rodents and ferrets, we found that the animals exhibit symptoms never seen with flu: seizures, central nervous system disorders, partial paralysis.
This is not your normal garden-variety flu.
It mimics what we now understand about reconstructing the 1918 flu virus, the last great pandemic, in that it also jumped directly from birds to people.
We had evolution over time, and this unbelievable mortality rate in human beings: 55 percent of people who have become infected with H5N1 have, in fact, succumbed.
And we don't have a huge number of people who got infected and never developed disease.
In experimental feeding in monkeys you can see that it actually downregulates a specific immune system modulator.
The result is that what kills you is not the virus directly, but your own immune system overreacting, saying, "Whatever this is so foreign I'm going berserk.
" The result: most of the deaths have been in people under 30 years of age, robustly healthy young adults.
We have seen human-to-human transmission in at least three clusters -- fortunately involving very intimate contact, still not putting the world at large at any kind of risk.
Alright, so I've got you nervous.
Now you probably assume, well the governments are going to do something.
And we have spent a lot of money.
Most of the spending in the Bush administration has actually been more related to the anthrax results and bio-terrorism threat.
But a lot of money has been thrown out at the local level and at the federal level to look at infectious diseases.
End result: only 15 states have been certified to be able to do mass distribution of vaccine and drugs in a pandemic.
Half the states would run out of hospital beds in the first week, maybe two weeks.
And 40 states already have an acute nursing shortage.
Add on pandemic threat, you're in big trouble.
So what have people been doing with this money?
Exercises, drills, all over the world.
Let's pretend there's a pandemic.
Let's everybody run around and play your role.
Main result is that there is tremendous confusion.
Most of these people don't actually know what their job will be.
And the bottom line, major thing that has come through in every single drill: nobody knows who's in charge.
Nobody knows the chain of command.
If it were Los Angeles, is it the mayor, the governor, the President of the United States, the head of Homeland Security?
In fact, the federal government says it's a guy called the Principle Federal Officer, who happens to be with TSA.
The government says the federal responsibility will basically be about trying to keep the virus out, which we all know is impossible, and then to mitigate the impact primarily on our economy.
The rest is up to your local community.
Everything is about your town, where you live.
Well how good a city council you have, how good a mayor you have -- that's who's going to be in charge.
Most local facilities would all be competing to try and get their hands on their piece of the federal stockpile of a drug called Tamiflu, which may or may not be helpful -- I'll get into that -- of available vaccines, and any other treatments, and masks, and anything that's been stockpiled.
And you'll have massive competition.
Now we did purchase a vaccine, you've probably all heard about it, made by Sanofi-Aventis.
Unfortunately it's made against the current form of H5N1.
We know the virus will mutate.
It will be a different virus.
The vaccine will probably be useless.
So here's where the decisions come in.
You're the mayor of your local town.
Let's see, should we order that all pets be kept indoors?
Germany did that when H5N1 appeared in Germany last year, in order to minimize the spread between households by household cats, dogs and so on.
What do we do when we don't have any containment rooms with reverse air that will allow the healthcare workers to take care of patients?
These are in Hong Kong; we have nothing like that here.
What about quarantine?
During the SARS epidemic in Beijing quarantine did seem to help.
We have no uniform policies regarding quarantine across the United States.
And some states have differential policies, county by county.
But what about the no-brainer things?
Should we close all the schools?
Well then what about all the workers?
They won't go to work if their kids aren't in school.
Encouraging telecommuting?
What works?
Well the British government did a model of telecommuting.
Six weeks they had all people in the banking industry pretend a pandemic was underway.
What they found was, the core functions -- you know you still sort of had banks, but you couldn't get people to put money in the ATM machines.
Nobody was processing the credit cards.
Your insurance payments didn't go through.
And basically the economy would be in a disaster state of affairs.
And that's just office workers, bankers.
We don't know how important hand washing is for flu -- shocking.
One assumes it's a good idea to wash your hands a lot.
But actually in scientific community there is great debate about what percentage of flu transmission between people is from sneezing and coughing and what percentage is on your hands.
The Institute of Medicine tried to look at the masking question.
Can we figure out a way, since we know we won't have enough masks because we don't make them in America anymore, they're all made in China -- do we need N95?
A state-of-the-art, top-of-the-line, must-be-fitted-to-your-face mask?
Or can we get away with some different kinds of masks?
In the SARS epidemic, we learned in Hong Kong that most of transmission was because people were removing their masks improperly.
And their hand got contaminated with the outside of the mask, and then they rubbed their nose.
Bingo! They got SARS.
It wasn't flying microbes.
If you go online right now, you'll get so much phony-baloney information.
You'll end up buying -- this is called an N95 mask.
We don't actually have a standard for what should be the protective gear for the first responders, the people who will actually be there on the front lines.
And Tamiflu.
You've probably heard of this drug, made by Hoffmann-La Roche, patented drug.
There is some indication that it may buy you some time in the midst of an outbreak.
Should you take Tamiflu for a long period of time, well, one of the side effects is suicidal ideations.
A public health survey analyzed the effect that large-scale Tamiflu use would have, actually shows it counteractive to public health measures, making matters worse.
And here is the other interesting thing: when a human being ingests Tamiflu, only 20 percent is metabolized appropriately to be an active compound in the human being.
The rest turns into a stable compound, which survives filtration into the water systems, thereby exposing the very aquatic birds that would carry flu and providing them a chance to breed resistant strains.
And we now have seen Tamiflu-resistant strains in both Vietnam in person-to-person transmission, and in Egypt in person-to-person transmission.
So I personally think that our life expectancy for Tamiflu as an effective drug is very limited -- very limited indeed.
Nevertheless most of the governments have based their whole flu policies on building stockpiles of Tamiflu.
Russia has actually stockpiled enough for 95 percent of all Russians.
We've stockpiled enough for 30 percent.
When I say enough, that's two weeks worth.
And then you're on your own because the pandemic is going to last for 18 to 24 months.
Some of the poorer countries that have had the most experience with H5N1 have built up stockpiles; they're already expired.
They are already out of date.
What do we know from 1918, the last great pandemic?
The federal government abdicated most responsibility.
And so we ended up with this wild patchwork of regulations all over America.
Every city, county, state did their own thing.
And the rules and the belief systems were wildly disparate.
In some cases all schools, all churches, all public venues were closed.
The pandemic circulated three times in 18 months in the absence of commercial air travel.
The second wave was the mutated, super-killer wave.
And in the first wave we had enough healthcare workers.
But by the time the second wave hit it took such a toll among the healthcare workers that we lost most of our doctors and nurses that were on the front lines.
Overall we lost 700,000 people.
The virus was 100 percent lethal to pregnant women and we don't actually know why.
Most of the death toll was 15 to 40 year-olds -- robustly healthy young adults.
It was likened to the plague.
We don't actually know how many people died.
The low-ball estimate is 35 million.
This was based on European and North American data.
A new study by Chris Murray at Harvard shows that if you look at the databases that were kept by the Brits in India, there was a 31-fold greater death rate among the Indians.
So there is a strong belief that in places of poverty the death toll was far higher.
And that a more likely toll is somewhere in the neighborhood of 80 to 100 million people before we had commercial air travel.
So are we ready?
As a nation, no we're not.
And I think even those in the leadership would say that is the case, that we still have a long ways to go.
So what does that mean for you?
Well the first thing is, I wouldn't start building up personal stockpiles of anything -- for yourself, your family, or your employees -- unless you've really done your homework.
What mask works, what mask doesn't work.
How many masks do you need?
The Institute of Medicine study felt that you could not recycle masks.
Well if you think it's going to last 18 months, are you going to buy 18 months worth of masks for every single person in your family?
We don't know -- again with Tamiflu, the number one side effect of Tamiflu is flu-like symptoms.
So then how can you tell who in your family has the flu if everybody is taking Tamiflu?
If you expand that out to think of a whole community, or all your employees in your company, you begin to realize how limited the Tamiflu option might be.
Everybody has come up to me and said, well I'll stockpile water or, I'll stockpile food, or what have you.
But really?
Do you really have a place to stockpile 18 months worth of food?
Twenty-four months worth of food?
Do you want to view the pandemic threat the way back in the 1950s people viewed the civil defense issue, and build your own little bomb shelter for pandemic flu?
I don't think that's rational.
I think it's about having to be prepared as communities, not as individuals -- being prepared as nation, being prepared as state, being prepared as town.
And right now most of the preparedness is deeply flawed.
And I hope I've convinced you of that, which means that the real job is go out and say to your local leaders, and your national leaders, "Why haven't you solved these problems?
Why are you still thinking that the lessons of Katrina do not apply to flu?
" And put the pressure where the pressure needs to be put.
But I guess the other thing to add is, if you do have employees, and you do have a company, I think you have certain responsibilities to demonstrate that you are thinking ahead for them, and you are trying to plan.
At a minimum the British banking plan showed that telecommuting can be helpful.
It probably does reduce exposure because people are not coming into the office and coughing on each other, or touching common objects and sharing things via their hands.
But can you sustain your company that way?
Well if you have a dot-com, maybe you can.
Otherwise you're in trouble.
Happy to take your questions.
Audience member: What factors determine the duration of a pandemic?
Laurie Garret: What factors determine the duration of a pandemic, we don't really know.
I could give you a bunch of flip, this, that, and the other.
But I would say that honestly we don't know.
Clearly the bottom line is the virus eventually attenuates, and ceases to be a lethal virus to humanity, and finds other hosts.
But we don't really know how and why that happens.
It's a very complicated ecology.
Audience member: What kind of triggers are you looking for?
You know way more than any of us.
To say ahh, if this happens then we are going to have a pandemic?
LG: The moment that you see any evidence of serious human-to-human to transmission.
Not just intimately between family members who took care of an ailing sister or brother, but a community infected -- spread within a school, spread within a dormitory, something of that nature.
Then I think that there is universal agreement now, at WHO all the way down: Send out the alert.
Audience member: Some research has indicated that statins can be helpful.
Can you talk about that?
LG: Yeah.
There is some evidence that taking Lipitor and other common statins for cholesterol control may decrease your vulnerability to influenza.
But we do not completely understand why.
The mechanism isn't clear.
And I don't know that there is any way responsibly for someone to start medicating their children with their personal supply of Lipitor or something of that nature.
We have absolutely no idea what that would do.
You might be causing some very dangerous outcomes in your children, doing such a thing.
Audience member: How far along are we in being able to determine whether someone is actually carrying, whether somebody has this before the symptoms are full-blown?
LG: Right.
So I have for a long time said that what we really needed was a rapid diagnostic.
And our Centers for Disease Control has labeled a test they developed a rapid diagnostic.
It takes 24 hours in a very highly developed laboratory, in highly skilled hands.
I'm thinking dipstick.
You could do it to your own kid.
It changes color.
It tells you if you have H5N1.
In terms of where we are in science with DNA identification capacities and so on, it's not that far off.
But we're not there.
And there hasn't been the kind of investment to get us there.
Audience member: In the 1918 flu I understand that they theorized that there was some attenuation of the virus when it made the leap into humans.
Is that likely, do you think, here?
I mean 100 percent death rate is pretty severe.
LG: Um yeah.
So we don't actually know what the lethality was of the 1918 strain to wild birds before it jumped from birds to humans.
It's curious that there is no evidence of mass die-offs of chickens or household birds across America before the human pandemic happened.
That may be because those events were occurring on the other side of the world where nobody was paying attention.
But the virus clearly went through one round around the world in a mild enough form that the British army in World War I actually certified that it was not a threat and would not affect the outcome of the war.
And after circulating around the world came back in a form that was tremendously lethal.
What percentage of infected people were killed by it?
Again we don't really know for sure.
It's clear that if you were malnourished to begin with, you had a weakened immune system, you lived in poverty in India or Africa, your likelihood of dying was far greater.
But we don't really know.
Audience member: One of the things I've heard is that the real death cause when you get a flu is the associated pneumonia, and that a pneumonia vaccine may offer you 50 percent better chance of survival.
LG: For a long time, researchers in emerging diseases were kind of dismissive of the pandemic flu threat on the grounds that back in 1918 they didn't have antibiotics.
And that most people who die of regular flu -- which in regular flu years is about 360,000 people worldwide, most of them senior citizens -- and they die not of the flu but because the flu gives an assault to their immune system.
And along comes pneumococcus or another bacteria, streptococcus and boom, they get a bacterial pneumonia.
But it turns out that in 1918 that was not the case at all.
And so far in the H5N1 cases in people, similarly bacterial infection has not been an issue at all.
It's this absolutely phenomenal disruption of the immune system that is the key to why people die of this virus.
And I would just add we saw the same thing with SARS.
So what's going on here is your body says, your immune system sends out all its sentinels and says, "I don't know what the heck this is.
We've never seen anything even remotely like this before.
" It won't do any good to bring in the sharpshooters because those antibodies aren't here.
And it won't do any good to bring in the tanks and the artillery because those T-cells don't recognize it either.
So we're going to have to go all-out thermonuclear response, stimulate the total cytokine cascade.
The whole immune system swarms into the lungs.
And yes they die, drowning in their own fluids, of pneumonia.
But it's not bacterial pneumonia.
And it's not a pneumonia that would respond to a vaccine.
And I think my time is up.
I thank you all for your attention.
Refugees have the right to be protected
Bruno Giussani: Commissioner, thank you for coming to TED.
Antnio Guterres: Pleasure.
BG: Let's start with a figure.
During 2015, almost one million refugees and migrants arrived in Europe from many different countries, of course, from Syria and Iraq, but also from Afghanistan and Bangladesh and Eritrea and elsewhere.
And there have been reactions of two different kinds: welcoming parties and border fences.
But I want to look at it a little bit from the short-term and the long-term perspective.
And the first question is very simple: Why has the movement of refugees spiked so fast in the last six months?
AG: Well, I think, basically, what triggered this huge increase was the Syrian refugee group.
There has been an increased movement into Europe from Africa, from Asia, but slowly growing, and all of a sudden we had this massive increase in the first months of this year.
I think there are three reasons, two long-term ones and the trigger.
The long-term ones, in relation to Syrians, is that hope is less and less clear for people.
I mean, they look at their own country and they don't see much hope to go back home, because there is no political solution, so there is no light at the end of the tunnel.
Second, the living conditions of the Syrians in the neighboring countries have been deteriorating.
We just had research with the World Bank, and 87 percent of the Syrians in Jordan and 93 percent of the Syrians in Lebanon live below the national poverty lines.
Only half of the children go to school, which means that people are living very badly.
Not only are they refugees, out of home, not only have they suffered what they have suffered, but they are living in very, very dramatic conditions.
And then the trigger was when all of a sudden, international aid decreased.
The World Food Programme was forced, for lack of resources, to cut by 30 percent food support to the Syrian refugees.
They're not allowed to work, so they are totally dependent on international support, and they felt, "The world is abandoning us.
" And that, in my opinion, was the trigger.
All of a sudden, there was a rush, and people started to move in large numbers and, to be absolutely honest, if I had been in the same situation and I would have been brave enough to do it, I think I would have done the same.
BG: But I think what surprised many people is it's not only sudden, but it wasn't supposed to be sudden.
The war in Syria has been happening for five years.
Millions of refugees are in camps and villages and towns around Syria.
You have yourself warned about the situation and about the consequences of a breakdown of Libya, for example, and yet Europe looked totally unprepared.
AG: Well, unprepared because divided, and when you are divided, you don't want to recognize the reality.
You prefer to postpone decisions, because you do not have the capacity to make them.
And the proof is that even when the spike occurred, Europe remained divided and was unable to put in place a mechanism to manage the situation.
You talk about one million people.
It looks enormous, but the population of the European Union is 550 million people, which means we are talking about one per every [550] Europeans.
Now, in Lebanon, we have one refugee per three Lebanese.
And Lebanon?
Struggling, of course, but it's managing.
So, the question is: is this something that could have been managed if -- not mentioning the most important thing, which would have been addressing the root causes, but forgetting about root causes for now, looking at the phenomenon as it is -- if Europe were able to come together in solidarity to create an adequate reception capacity of entry points?
But for that, the countries at entry points need to be massively supported, and then screening the people with security checks and all the other mechanisms, distributing those that are coming into all European countries, according to the possibilities of each country.
I mean, if you look at the relocation program that was approved by the Commission, always too little too late, or by the Council, too little too late --
BG: It's already breaking down.
AG: My country is supposed to receive four thousand.
Four thousand in Portugal means nothing.
So this is perfectly manageable if it is managed, but in the present circumstances, the pressure is at the point of entry, and then, as people move in this chaotic way through the Balkans, then they come to Germany, Sweden, basically, and Austria.
They are the three countries that are, in the end, receiving the refugees.
The rest of Europe is looking without doing much.
BG: Let me try to bring up three questions, playing a bit devil's advocate.
I'll try to ask them, make them blunt.
But I think the questions are very present in the minds of many people in Europe right now, the first, of course, is about numbers.
You say 550 million versus one million is not much, but realistically, how many people can Europe take?
AG: Well, that is a question that has no answer, because refugees have the right to be protected.
And there is such a thing as international law, so there is no way you can say, "I take 10,000 and that's finished.
" I remind you of one thing: in Turkey, at the beginning of the crisis, I remember one minister saying, "Turkey will be able to receive up to 100,000 people.
" Turkey has now two million three-hundred thousand or something of the sort, if you count all refugees.
So I don't think it's fair to say how many we can take.
What it is fair to say is: how we can we organize ourselves to assume our international responsibilities?
And Europe has not been able to do so, because basically, Europe is divided because there is no solidarity in the European project.
And it's not only about refugees; there are many other areas.
And let's be honest, this is the moment in which we need more Europe instead of less Europe.
But as the public less and less believes in European institutions, it is also each time more difficult to convince the public that we need more Europe to solve these problems.
BG: We seem to be at the point where the numbers turn into political shifts, particularly domestically.
We saw it again this weekend in France, but we have seen it over and over in many countries: in Poland and in Denmark and in Switzerland and elsewhere, where the mood changes radically because of the numbers, although they are not very significant in absolute numbers.
The Prime Minister of --
AG: But, if I may, on these: I mean, what does a European see at home in a village where there are no migrants?
What a European sees is, on television, every single day, a few months ago, opening the news every single day, a crowd coming, uncontrolled, moving from border to border, and the images on television were of hundreds or thousands of people moving.
And the idea is that nobody is taking care of it -- this is happening without any kind of management.
And so their idea was, "They are coming to my village.
" So there was this completely false idea that Europe was being invaded and our way of life is going to change, and everything will -- And the problem is that if this had been properly managed, if people had been properly received, welcomed, sheltered at point of entry, screened at point of entry, and the moved by plane to different European countries, this would not have scared people.
But, unfortunately, we have a lot of people scared, just because Europe was not able to do the job properly.
BG: But there are villages in Germany with 300 inhabitants and 1,000 refugees.
So, what's your position?
How do you imagine these people reacting?
AG: If there would be a proper management of the situation and the proper distribution of people all over Europe, you would always have the percentage that I mentioned: one per each 2,000.
It is because things are not properly managed that in the end we have situations that are totally impossible to live with, and of course if you have a village -- in Lebanon, there are many villages that have more Syrians than Lebanese; Lebanon has been living with that.
I'm not asking for the same to happen in Europe, for all European villages to have more refugees than inhabitants.
What I am asking is for Europe to do the job properly, and to be able to organize itself to receive people as other countries in the world were forced to do in the past.
BG: So, if you look at the global situation not only at Europe --
BG: Yes!
BG: If you look at the global situation, so, not only at Europe, I know you can make a long list of countries that are not really stepping up, but I'm more interested in the other part -- is there somebody who's doing the right thing?
AG: Well, 86 percent of the refugees in the world are in the developing world.
And if you look at countries like Ethiopia -- Ethiopia has received more than 600,000 refugees.
All the borders in Ethiopia are open.
And they have, as a policy, they call the "people to people" policy that every refugee should be received.
And they have South Sudanese, they have Sudanese, they have Somalis.
They have all the neighbors.
They have Eritreans.
And, in general, African countries are extremely welcoming of refugees coming, and I would say that in the Middle East and in Asia, we have seen a tendency for borders to be open.
Now we see some problems with the Syrian situation, as the Syrian situation evolved into also a major security crisis, but the truth is that for a large period, all borders in the Middle East were open.
The truth is that for Afghans, the borders of Pakistan and Iran were open for, at the time, six million Afghans that came.
So I would say that even today, the trend in the developing world has been for borders to be open. 
The trend in the developed world is for these questions to become more and more complex, especially when there is, in the public opinion, a mixture of discussions between refugee protections on one side and security questions -- in my opinion, misinterpreted -- on the other side.
BG: We'll come back to that too, but you mentioned the cutting of funding and the vouchers from the World Food Programme.
That reflects the general underfunding of the organizations working on these issues.
Now that the world seems to have woken up, are you getting more funding and more support, or it's still the same?
AG: We are getting more support.
I would say that we are coming close to the levels of last year.
We were much worse during the summer.
But that is clearly insufficient to address the needs of the people and address the needs of the countries that are supporting the people.
And here we have a basic review of the criteria, the objectives, the priorities of development cooperation that is required.
For instance, Lebanon and Jordan are middle-income countries.
Because they are middle-income countries, they cannot receive soft loans or grants from the World Bank.
Now, today this doesn't make any sense, because they are providing a global public good.
They have millions of refugees there, and to be honest, they are pillars of stability in the region, with all the difficulties they face, and the first line of defense of our collective security.
So it doesn't make sense that these countries are not a first priority in development cooperation policies.
And they are not.
And not only do the refugees live in very dramatic circumstances inside those countries, but the local communities themselves are suffering, because salaries went down, because there are more unemployed, because prices and rents went up.
And, of course, if you look at today's situation of the indicators in these countries, it is clear that, especially their poor groups of the population, are living worse and worse because of the crisis they are facing.
BG: Who should be providing this support?
Country by country, international organizations, the European Union?
Who should be coming up with this support?
AG: We need to join all efforts.
It's clear that bilateral cooperation is essential.
It's clear that multilateral cooperation is essential.
It's clear that international financial institutions should have flexibility in order to be able to invest more massively in support to these countries.
We need to combine all the instruments and to understand that today, in protracted situations, at a certain moment, that it doesn't make sense anymore to make a distinction between humanitarian aid and development aid or development processes.
Because you are talking about children in school, you are talking about health, you are talking about infrastructure that is overcrowded.
You are talking about things that require a long-term perspective, a development perspective and not only an emergency humanitarian aid perspective.
BG: I would like your comment on something that was in newspapers this morning.
It is a statement made by the current front-runner for the Republican nomination for US President, Donald Trump.
Yesterday, he said this.
No, listen to this.
It's interesting.
I quote: "I am calling for a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the US, until our country's representatives can figure out what's going on.
" How do you react to that?
AG: Well, it's not only Donald Trump.
We have seen several people around the world with political responsibility saying, for instance, that Muslims refugees should not be received.
And the reason why they say this is because they think that by doing or saying this, they are protecting the security of their countries.
Now, I've been in government.
I am very keen on the need for governments to protect the security of their countries and their people.
But if you say, like that, in the US or in any European country, "We are going to close our doors to Muslim refugees," what you are saying is the best possible help for the propaganda of terrorist organizations.
Because what you are saying --
What you are saying will be heard by all the Muslims in your own country, and it will pave the way for the recruitment and the mechanisms that, through technology, Daesh and al-Nusra, al-Qaeda, and all those other groups are today penetrating in our societies.
And it's just telling them, "You are right, we are against you.
" So obviously, this is creating in societies that are all multiethnic, multi-religious, multicultural, this is creating a situation in which, really, it is much easier for the propaganda of these terrorist organizations to be effective in recruiting people for terror acts within the countries where these kinds of sentences are expressed.
BG: Have the recent attacks in Paris and the reactions to them made your job more difficult?
AG: Undoubtedly.
BG: In what sense?
AG: In the sense that, I mean, for many people the first reaction in relation to these kinds of terrorist attacks is: close all borders -- not understanding that the terrorist problem in Europe is largely homegrown.
We have thousands and thousands of European fighters in Syria and in Iraq, so this is not something that you solve by just not allowing Syrians to come in.
And I must say, I am convinced that the passport that appeared, I believe, was put by the person who has blown -- himself up, yeah.
AG: [I believe] it was on purpose, because part of the strategies of Daesh is against refugees, because they see refugees as people that should be with the caliphate and are fleeing to the crusaders.
And I think that is part of Daesh's strategy to make Europe react, closing its doors to Muslim refugees and having an hostility towards Muslims inside Europe, exactly to facilitate Daesh's work.
And my deep belief is that it was not the refugee movement that triggered terrorism.
I think, as I said, essentially terrorism in Europe is today a homegrown movement in relation to the global situation that we are facing, and what we need is exactly to prove these groups wrong, by welcoming and integrating effectively those that are coming from that part of the world.
And another thing that I believe is that to a large extent, what we are today paying for in Europe is the failures of integration models that didn't work in the '60s, in the '70s, in the '80s, in relation to big migration flows that took place at that time and generated what is today in many of the people, for instance, of the second generation of communities, a situation of feeling marginalized, having no jobs, having improper education, living in some of the neighborhoods that are not adequately provided by public infrastructure.
And this kind of uneasiness, sometimes even anger, that exists in this second generation is largely due to the failure of integration policies, to the failure of what should have been a much stronger investment in creating the conditions for people to live together and respect each other.
For me it is clear.
For me it is clear that all societies will be multiethnic, multicultural, multi-religious in the future.
To try to avoid it is, in my opinion, impossible.
And for me it's a good thing that they will be like that, but I also recognize that, for that to work properly, you need a huge investment in the social cohesion of your own societies.
And Europe, to a large extent, failed in that investment in the past few decades.
BG: Question: You are stepping down from your job at the end of the year, after 10 years.
If you look back at 2005, when you entered that office for the first time, what do you see?
AG: Well, look: In 2005, we were helping one million people go back home in safety and dignity, because conflicts had ended.
Last year, we helped 124,000.
In 2005, we had about 38 million people displaced by conflict in the world.
Today, we have more than 60 million.
At that time, we had had, recently, some conflicts that were solved.
Now, we see a multiplication of new conflicts and the old conflicts never died: Afghanistan, Somalia, Democratic Republic of Congo.
It is clear that the world today is much more dangerous than it was.
It is clear that the capacity of the international community to prevent conflicts and to timely solve them, is, unfortunately, much worse than what it was 10 years ago.
There are no clear power relations in the world, no global governance mechanisms that work, which means that we live in a situation where impunity and unpredictability tend to prevail, and that means that more and more people suffer, namely those that are displaced by conflicts.
BG: It's a tradition in American politics that when a President leaves the Oval Office for the last time, he leaves a handwritten note on the desk for his successor that walks in a couple of hours later.
If you had to write such a note to your successor, Filippo Grandi, what would you write?
AG: Well, I don't think I would write any message.
You know, one of the terrible things when one leaves an office is to try to become the backseat driver, always telling the new one what to do.
So that, I will not do.
If I had to say something to him, it would be, "Be yourself, and do your best.
BG: Commissioner, thank you for the job you do.
Thank you for coming to TED.
The beautiful future of solar power
Last summer, I was hiking through the Austrian mountains.
And there, on top, I saw this beautiful, stone, remote hut, and it had solar panels on it.
And every time I see solar panels, I get very enthusiastic.
It's this technology that takes sunlight, which is free and available, and turns that into electricity.
So this hut, in the middle of nowhere, on a beautiful location, was self-sufficient.
But why do solar panels always have to be so ugly?
My name is Marjan Van Aubel and I'm a solar designer.
I work in the triangle of design, sustainability and technology.
I strive for extreme efficiency, meaning that I develop materials that expand in size or work with solar cells that use the properties of colors to generate electricity.
My work is in museums all over the world, such as MoMA.
And, I mean, it all went quite well, but it always felt that something was missing.
And it was, until I read the book called the "Solar Revolution," where it says that within one hour we receive enough sunlight to provide the world with enough electricity for an entire year.
One hour.
And since then, I realized I just want to focus on solar.
Scientists all over the world have been focusing on making solar panels more efficient and cheaper.
So the price of solar has dropped enormously.
And this is because China started producing them on a large scale.
And also their efficiency has increased a lot.
They now even have an efficiency of 44.5 percent.
But if you think about the image of solar cells, it's kind of stayed the same for the last 60 years.
It's still this technology just stacked onto something.
And solar cells need to be much better integrated into our environment.
Climate change is the biggest problem of our time.
And we can't rely on the others -- the government, the engineers -- to make positive changes.
We all can contribute towards change.
Like I said, I'm a designer and I would like to change things through design.
Let me give you some examples of my work.
I'm collaborating with Swarovski, the crystal company.
And if you cut crystals in a certain way, you are able to bend and direct the light onto a certain place.
So I use these crystals to focus the light onto a solar panel, making them more efficient, but using aesthetics.
So you take the solar crystal with you in the light, there's a battery in the solar cell, you put it in a docking station and you are able to power these chandeliers.
So you're literally bringing the light indoors.
I got completely hooked on solar when I came across this technology called dye-sensitized solar cells, colored solar cells, and they are based on photosynthesis in plants.
Where the green chlorophyl converts light into sugar for plants, these cells convert light into electricity.
The best thing is, they even work indoors.
So different colors have different efficiency, depending on their place on the color spectrum.
So, for example, red is more efficient than blue.
So if I hear this as a designer: a colored surface, a glass colored surface, color that's mostly just used for esthetics, now gets an extra function and is able to harvest electricity, I think, where can we apply this, then?
This is Current Table, where the whole tabletop consists of these colored solar cells.
There are batteries in the legs where you can charge your phone through USB ports.
And in my work, it's always very important, the balance between efficiency and aesthetics.
So that's why the table is orange, because it is a very stable color for indoors.
And this is always the most asked question I get: "OK, great, but how many phones can I charge from this, then?
" And before I go to this complicated answer of like, "Well, where is the table, does it have enough light, is it next to a window?
" The table now has sensors that read the light intensity of the room.
So through an app we developed you can literally follow how much light it's getting, and how full the battery is.
I'm actually proud, because yesterday we installed a table at Stichting Doen's offices in Amsterdam and, right at this moment, our Queen Maxima is charging a phone from this table.
It's cool.
So the more surface you have, the more energy you can harvest.
These are Current Windows, where we replaced all windows in a gallery in London, in Soho, with this modern version of stained glass.
So people from the street could come and charge their phones through the window ledges.
So I'm giving extra functions to objects.
A window doesn't have to be just a window anymore.
It can also function as a little power station.
So, here I am, talking about how much I love solar, but I don't have solar panels on my roof. 
I live in the center of Amsterdam, I don't own the house and it's a monument, so it's not possible and not allowed.
So how can you make solar cells more accessible and for everyone, and not only for the people that can afford a sustainable lifestyle?
We now have the opportunity to integrate solar on the place where we directly need it.
And there are so many amazing technologies out there.
If I look around now, I see every surface as an opportunity.
For example, I was driving in the train through the Westland, the area in the Netherlands with all the greenhouses.
There I saw all this glass and thought, what if we integrate those with transparent solar glass?
What if we integrate traditional farming that requires a lot of energy together with high-tech and combine those?
With this idea in mind, I created Power Plant.
I had a team of architects and engineers, but let me first explain how it works.
We use transparent solar glass to power its indoor climate.
We use hydroponics that pumps around nutrified water, saving 90 percent of water usage.
By stacking up in layers, you are able to grow more yield per square meter.
Extra light, besides sunlight, coming from these colored LED lights also enhances plant growth.
As more and more people will live in big cities, by placing Power Plants on the rooftops you don't have to fly it in from the other side of the world, you are able to grow it on the location itself.
Well, the big dream is to build these in off-grid places -- where there's no access to water, electricity -- as an independent ecosystem.
For this year's Design Biennial, I created the first four-meter high model of the power plant, so you could come in and experience how plants grow.
So it's a double harvest of sunlight, so both for the solar cells and for the plants.
It's like a future botanical garden, where we celebrate all these modern technologies.
And the biggest compliment I got was, "But where are the solar panels?
" And that's when I think design really works, when it becomes invisible and you don't notice it.
I believe in solar democracy: solar energy for everyone, everywhere.
My aim is to make all surfaces productive.
I want to build houses where all the windows, curtains, walls, even floors are harvesting electricity.
Think about this on a big scale: in cities, there are so many surfaces.
The sun is still available for everyone.
And by integrating solar on the place where we need it, we now have the opportunity to make solar cells accessible for everyone.
I want to bring solar close to the people with you, but beautiful and well designed.
Thank you.
How bees can keep the peace between elephants and humans
Ever since I can remember, African elephants have filled me with a sense of complete awe.
They are the largest land mammal alive today on planet Earth, weighing up to seven tons, standing three and a half meters tall at the shoulder.
They can eat up to 400 kilos of food in a day, and they disperse vital plant seeds across thousands of kilometers during their 50-to-60-year life span.
Central to their compassionate and complex society are the matriarchs.
These female, strong leaders nurture the young and navigate their way through the challenges of the African bush to find food, water and security.
Their societies are so complex, we're yet to still fully tease apart how they communicate, how they verbalize to each other, how their dialects work.
And we don't really understand yet how they navigate the landscape, remembering the safest places to cross a river.
I'm pretty sure that like me, most of you in this room have a similar positive emotional response to these most magnificent of all animals.
It's really hard not to have watched a documentary, learned about their intelligence or, if you've been lucky, to see them for yourselves on safari in the wild.
But I wonder how many of you have been truly, utterly terrified by them.
I was lucky to be brought up in Southern Africa by two teacher parents who had long holidays but very short budgets.
And so we used to take our old Ford Cortina Estate, and with my sister, we'd pile in the back, take our tents and go camping in the different game reserves in Southern Africa.
It really was heaven for a young, budding zoologist like myself.
But I remember even at that young age that I found the tall electric fences blocking off the game parks quite divisive.
Sure, they were keeping elephants out of the communities, but they also kept communities out of their wild spaces.
It really was quite a challenge to me at that young age.
It was only when I moved to Kenya at the age of 14, when I got to connect to the vast, wild open spaces of East Africa.
And it is here now that I feel truly, instinctively, really at home.
I spent many, many happy years studying elephant behavior in a tent, in Samburu National Reserve, under the guideship of professor Fritz Vollrath and Iain Douglas-Hamilton, studying for my PhD and understanding the complexities of elephant societies.
But now, in my role as head of the human-elephant coexistence program for Save the Elephants, we're seeing so much change happening so fast that it's urged a change in some of our research programs.
No longer can we just sit and understand elephant societies or study just how to stop the ivory trade, which is horrific and still ongoing.
We're having to change our resources more and more to look at this rising problem of human-elephant conflict, as people and pachyderms compete for space and resources.
It was only as recently as the 1970s that we used to have 1.2 million elephants roaming across Africa.
Today, we're edging closer to only having 400,000 left.
And at the same time period, the human population has quadrupled, and the land is being fragmented at such a pace that it's really hard to keep up with.
Too often, these migrating elephants end up stuck inside communities, looking for food and water but ending up breaking open water tanks, breaking pipes and, of course, breaking into food stores for food.
It's really a huge challenge.
Can you imagine the terror of an elephant literally ripping the roof off your mud hut in the middle of the night and having to hold your children away as the trunk reaches in, looking for food in the pitch dark?
These elephants also trample and eat crops, and this is traditionally eroding away that tolerance that people used to have for elephants.
And sadly, we're losing these animals by the day and, in some countries, by the hour -- to not only ivory poaching but this rapid rise in human-elephant conflict as they compete for space and resources.
It's a massive challenge.
I mean, how do you keep seven-ton pachyderms, that often come in groups of 10 or 12, out of these very small rural farms when you're dealing with people who are living on the very edge of poverty?
They don't have big budgets.
How do you resolve this issue?
Well, one issue is, you can just start to build electric fences, and this is happening across Africa, we're seeing this more and more.
But they are dividing up areas and blocking corridors.
And I'm telling you, these elephants don't think much of it either, particularly if they're blocking a really special water hole where they need water, or if there's a very attractive female on the other side.
It doesn't take long to knock down one of these poles.
And as soon as there's a gap in the fence, they go back, talk to their mates and suddenly they're all through, and now you have 12 elephants on the community side of the fence.
And now you're really in trouble.
People keep trying to come up with new designs for electric fences.
Well, these elephants don't think much of those either.
So rather than having these hard-line, straight, electric, really divisive migratory-blocking fences, there must be other ways to look at this challenge.
I'm much more interested in holistic and natural methods to keep elephants and people apart where necessary.
Simply talking to people, talking to rural pastoralists in northern Kenya who have so much knowledge about the bush, we discovered this story that they had that elephants would not feed on trees that had wild beehives in them.
Now this was an interesting story.
As the elephants were foraging on the tree, they would break branches and perhaps break open a wild beehive.
And those bees would fly out of their natural nests and sting the elephants.
Now if the elephants got stung, perhaps they would remember that this tree was dangerous and they wouldn't come back to that same site.
It seems impossible that they could be stung through their thick skin -- elephant skin is around two centimeters thick.
But it seems that they sting them around the watery areas, around the eyes, behind the ears, in the mouth, up the trunk.
You can imagine they would remember that very quickly.
And it's not really one sting that they're scared of.
African bees have a phenomenal ability: when they sting in one site, they release a pheromone that triggers the rest of the bees to come and sting the same site.
So it's not one beesting that they're scared of -- it's perhaps thousands of beestings, coming to sting in the same area -- that they're afraid of.
And of course, a good matriarch would always keep her young away from such a threat.
Young calves have much thinner skins, and it's potential that they could be stung through their thinner skins.
So for my PhD, I had this unusual challenge of trying to work out how African elephants and African bees would interact, when the theory was that they wouldn't interact at all.
How was I going to study this?
Well, what I did was I took the sound of disturbed African honey bees, and I played it back to elephants resting under trees through a wireless speaker system, so I could understand how they would react as if there were wild bees in the area.
And it turns out that they react quite dramatically to the sound of African wild bees.
Here we are, playing the bee sounds back to this amazing group of elephants.
You can see the ears going up, going out, they're turning their heads from side to side, one elephant is flicking her trunk to try and smell.
There's another elephant that kicks one of calves on the ground to tell it to get up as if there is a threat.
And one elephant triggers a retreat, and soon the whole family of elephants are running after her across the savannah in a cloud of dust.
(Sound of bees buzzing)
(Sound of bees ends)
Now I've done this experiment many, many times, and the elephants almost always flee.
Not only do they run away, but they dust themselves as they're running, as if to knock bees out of the air.
And we placed infrasonic microphones around the elephants as we did these experiments.
And it turns out they're communicating to each other in infrasonic rumbles to warn each other of the threat of bees and to stay away from the area.
So these behavioral discoveries really helped us understand how elephants would react should they hear or see bee sounds.
This led me to invent a novel design for a beehive fence, which we are now building around small, one-to-two-acre farms on the most vulnerable frontline areas of Africa where humans and elephants are competing for space.
These beehive fences are very, very simple.
We use 12 beehives and 12 dummy hives to protect one acre of farmland.
Now a dummy hive is simply a piece of plywood which we cut into squares, paint yellow and hang in between the hives.
We're basically tricking the elephants into thinking there are more beehives than there really are.
And of course, it literally halves the cost of the fence.
So there's a hive and a dummy hive and a beehive and now dummy hive, every 10 meters around the outside boundary.
They're held up by posts with a shade roof to protect the bees, and they're interconnected with a simple piece of plain wire, which goes all the way around, connecting the hives.
So if an elephant tries to enter the farm, he will avoid the beehive at all cost, but he might try and push through between the hive and the dummy hive, causing all the beehives to swing as the wire hits his chest.
And as we know from our research work, this will cause the elephants to flee and run away -- and hopefully remember not to come back to that risky area.
The bees swarm out of the hive, and they really scare the elephants away.
These beehive fences we're studying using things like camera traps to help us understand how elephants are responding to them at night time, which is when most of the crop raiding occurs.
And we found in our study farms that we're keeping up to 80 percent of elephants outside of the boundaries of these farms.
And the bees and the beehive fences are also pollinating the fields.
So we're having a great reduction both in elephant crop raids and a boost in yield through the pollination services that the bees are giving to the crops themselves.
The strength of the beehive fences is really important -- the colonies have to be very strong.
So we're trying to help farmers grow pollinator-friendly crops to boost their hives, boost the strength of their bees and, of course, produce the most amazing honey.
This honey is so valuable as an extra livelihood income for the farmers.
It's a healthy alternative to sugar, and in our community, it's a very valuable present to give a mother-in-law, which makes it almost priceless.
We now bottle up this honey, and we've called this wild beautiful honey Elephant-Friendly Honey.
It is a fun name, but it also attracts attention to our project and helps people understand what we're trying to do to save elephants.
We're working now with so many women in over 60 human-elephant conflict sites in 19 countries in Africa and Asia to build these beehive fences, working very, very closely with so many farmers but particularly now with women farmers, helping them to live better in harmony with elephants.
One of the things we're trying to do is develop a toolbox of options to live in better harmony with these massive pachyderms.
One of those issues is to try and get farmers, and women in particular, to think different about what they're planting inside their farms as well.
So we're looking at planting crops that elephants don't particularly want to eat, like chillies, ginger, Moringa, sunflowers.
And of course, the bees and the beehive fences love these crops too, because they have beautiful flowers.
One of these plants is a spiky plant called sisal -- you may know this here as jute.
And this amazing plant can be stripped down and turned into a weaving product.
We're working with these amazing women now who live daily with the challenges of elephants to use this plant to weave into baskets to provide an alternative income for them.
We've just started construction only three weeks ago on a women's enterprise center where we're going to be working with these women not only as expert beekeepers but as amazing basket weavers; they're going to be processing chili oils, sunflower oils, making lip balms and honey, and we're somewhere on our way to helping these participating farmers live with better eco-generating projects that live and work better with living with elephants.
So whether it's matriarchs or mothers or researchers like myself, I do see more women coming to the forefront now to think differently and more boldly about the challenges that we face.
With more innovation, and perhaps with some more empathy towards each other, I do believe we can move from a state of conflict with elephants to true coexistence.
Thank you.
Will automation take away all our jobs?
Here's a startling fact: in the 45 years since the introduction of the automated teller machine, those vending machines that dispense cash, the number of human bank tellers employed in the United States has roughly doubled, from about a quarter of a million to a half a million.
A quarter of a million in 1970 to about a half a million today, with 100,000 added since the year 2000.
These facts, revealed in a recent book by Boston University economist James Bessen, raise an intriguing question: what are all those tellers doing, and why hasn't automation eliminated their employment by now?
If you think about it, many of the great inventions of the last 200 years were designed to replace human labor.
Tractors were developed to substitute mechanical power for human physical toil.
Assembly lines were engineered to replace inconsistent human handiwork with machine perfection.
Computers were programmed to swap out error-prone, inconsistent human calculation with digital perfection.
These inventions have worked.
We no longer dig ditches by hand, pound tools out of wrought iron or do bookkeeping using actual books. 
And yet, the fraction of US adults employed in the labor market is higher now in 2016 than it was 125 years ago, in 1890, and it's risen in just about every decade in the intervening 125 years.
This poses a paradox.
Our machines increasingly do our work for us.
Why doesn't this make our labor redundant and our skills obsolete?
Why are there still so many jobs?
I'm going to try to answer that question tonight, and along the way, I'm going to tell you what this means for the future of work and the challenges that automation does and does not pose for our society.
Why are there so many jobs?
There are actually two fundamental economic principles at stake.
One has to do with human genius and creativity.
The other has to do with human insatiability, or greed, if you like.
I'm going to call the first of these the O-ring principle, and it determines the type of work that we do.
The second principle is the never-get-enough principle, and it determines how many jobs there actually are.
Let's start with the O-ring.
ATMs, automated teller machines, had two countervailing effects on bank teller employment.
As you would expect, they replaced a lot of teller tasks.
The number of tellers per branch fell by about a third.
But banks quickly discovered that it also was cheaper to open new branches, and the number of bank branches increased by about 40 percent in the same time period.
The net result was more branches and more tellers.
But those tellers were doing somewhat different work.
As their routine, cash-handling tasks receded, they became less like checkout clerks and more like salespeople, forging relationships with customers, solving problems and introducing them to new products like credit cards, loans and investments: more tellers doing a more cognitively demanding job.
There's a general principle here.
Most of the work that we do requires a multiplicity of skills, and brains and brawn, technical expertise and intuitive mastery, perspiration and inspiration in the words of Thomas Edison.
In general, automating some subset of those tasks doesn't make the other ones unnecessary.
In fact, it makes them more important.
It increases their economic value.
Let me give you a stark example.
In 1986, the space shuttle Challenger exploded and crashed back down to Earth less than two minutes after takeoff.
The cause of that crash, it turned out, was an inexpensive rubber O-ring in the booster rocket that had frozen on the launchpad the night before and failed catastrophically moments after takeoff.
In this multibillion dollar enterprise that simple rubber O-ring made the difference between mission success and the calamitous death of seven astronauts.
An ingenious metaphor for this tragic setting is the O-ring production function, named by Harvard economist Michael Kremer after the Challenger disaster.
The O-ring production function conceives of the work as a series of interlocking steps, links in a chain.
Every one of those links must hold for the mission to succeed.
If any of them fails, the mission, or the product or the service, comes crashing down.
This precarious situation has a surprisingly positive implication, which is that improvements in the reliability of any one link in the chain increases the value of improving any of the other links.
Concretely, if most of the links are brittle and prone to breakage, the fact that your link is not that reliable is not that important.
Probably something else will break anyway.
But as all the other links become robust and reliable, the importance of your link becomes more essential.
In the limit, everything depends upon it.
The reason the O-ring was critical to space shuttle Challenger is because everything else worked perfectly.
If the Challenger were kind of the space era equivalent of Microsoft Windows 2000 --the reliability of the O-ring wouldn't have mattered because the machine would have crashed.
Here's the broader point.
In much of the work that we do, we are the O-rings.
Yes, ATMs could do certain cash-handling tasks faster and better than tellers, but that didn't make tellers superfluous.
It increased the importance of their problem-solving skills and their relationships with customers.
The same principle applies if we're building a building, if we're diagnosing and caring for a patient, or if we are teaching a class to a roomful of high schoolers.
As our tools improve, technology magnifies our leverage and increases the importance of our expertise and our judgment and our creativity.
And that brings me to the second principle: never get enough.
You may be thinking, OK, O-ring, got it, that says the jobs that people do will be important.
They can't be done by machines, but they still need to be done.
But that doesn't tell me how many jobs there will need to be.
If you think about it, isn't it kind of self-evident that once we get sufficiently productive at something, we've basically worked our way out of a job?
In 1900, 40 percent of all US employment was on farms.
Today, it's less than two percent.
Why are there so few farmers today?
It's not because we're eating less.
A century of productivity growth in farming means that now, a couple of million farmers can feed a nation of 320 million.
That's amazing progress, but it also means there are only so many O-ring jobs left in farming.
So clearly, technology can eliminate jobs.
Farming is only one example.
There are many others like it.
But what's true about a single product or service or industry has never been true about the economy as a whole.
Many of the industries in which we now work -- health and medicine, finance and insurance, electronics and computing -- were tiny or barely existent a century ago.
Many of the products that we spend a lot of our money on -- air conditioners, sport utility vehicles, computers and mobile devices -- were unattainably expensive, or just hadn't been invented a century ago.
As automation frees our time, increases the scope of what is possible, we invent new products, new ideas, new services that command our attention, occupy our time and spur consumption.
You may think some of these things are frivolous -- extreme yoga, adventure tourism, Pokemon GO -- and I might agree with you.
But people desire these things, and they're willing to work hard for them.
The average worker in 2015 wanting to attain the average living standard in 1915 could do so by working just 17 weeks a year, one third of the time.
But most people don't choose to do that.
They are willing to work hard to harvest the technological bounty that is available to them.
Material abundance has never eliminated perceived scarcity.
In the words of economist Thorstein Veblen, invention is the mother of necessity.
Now. So if you accept these two principles, the O-ring principle and the never-get-enough principle, then you agree with me.
There will be jobs.
Does that mean there's nothing to worry about?
Automation, employment, robots and jobs -- it'll all take care of itself?
That is not my argument.
Automation creates wealth by allowing us to do more work in less time.
There is no economic law that says that we will use that wealth well, and that is worth worrying about.
Consider two countries, Norway and Saudi Arabia.
Both oil-rich nations, it's like they have money spurting out of a hole in the ground.
But they haven't used that wealth equally well to foster human prosperity, human prospering.
Norway is a thriving democracy.
By and large, its citizens work and play well together.
It's typically numbered between first and fourth in rankings of national happiness.
Saudi Arabia is an absolute monarchy in which many citizens lack a path for personal advancement.
It's typically ranked 35th among nations in happiness, which is low for such a wealthy nation.
Just by way of comparison, the US is typically ranked around 12th or 13th.
The difference between these two countries is not their wealth and it's not their technology.
It's their institutions.
Norway has invested to build a society with opportunity and economic mobility.
Saudi Arabia has raised living standards while frustrating many other human strivings.
Two countries, both wealthy, not equally well off.
And this brings me to the challenge that we face today, the challenge that automation poses for us.
The challenge is not that we're running out of work.
The US has added 14 million jobs since the depths of the Great Recession.
The challenge is that many of those jobs are not good jobs, and many citizens cannot qualify for the good jobs that are being created.
Employment growth in the United States and in much of the developed world looks something like a barbell with increasing poundage on either end of the bar.
On the one hand, you have high-education, high-wage jobs like doctors and nurses, programmers and engineers, marketing and sales managers.
Employment is robust in these jobs, employment growth.
Similarly, employment growth is robust in many low-skill, low-education jobs like food service, cleaning, security, home health aids.
Simultaneously, employment is shrinking in many middle-education, middle-wage, middle-class jobs, like blue-collar production and operative positions and white-collar clerical and sales positions.
The reasons behind this contracting middle are not mysterious.
Many of those middle-skill jobs use well-understood rules and procedures that can increasingly be codified in software and executed by computers.
The challenge that this phenomenon creates, what economists call employment polarization, is that it knocks out rungs in the economic ladder, shrinks the size of the middle class and threatens to make us a more stratified society.
On the one hand, a set of highly paid, highly educated professionals doing interesting work, on the other, a large number of citizens in low-paid jobs whose primary responsibility is to see to the comfort and health of the affluent.
That is not my vision of progress, and I doubt that it is yours.
But here is some encouraging news.
We have faced equally momentous economic transformations in the past, and we have come through them successfully.
In the late 1800s and early 1900s, when automation was eliminating vast numbers of agricultural jobs -- remember that tractor?-- the farm states faced a threat of mass unemployment, a generation of youth no longer needed on the farm but not prepared for industry.
Rising to this challenge, they took the radical step of requiring that their entire youth population remain in school and continue their education to the ripe old age of 16.
This was called the high school movement, and it was a radically expensive thing to do.
Not only did they have to invest in the schools, but those kids couldn't work at their jobs.
It also turned out to be one of the best investments the US made in the 20th century.
It gave us the most skilled, the most flexible and the most productive workforce in the world.
To see how well this worked, imagine taking the labor force of 1899 and bringing them into the present.
Despite their strong backs and good characters, many of them would lack the basic literacy and numeracy skills to do all but the most mundane jobs.
Many of them would be unemployable.
What this example highlights is the primacy of our institutions, most especially our schools, in allowing us to reap the harvest of our technological prosperity.
It's foolish to say there's nothing to worry about.
Clearly we can get this wrong.
If the US had not invested in its schools and in its skills a century ago with the high school movement, we would be a less prosperous, a less mobile and probably a lot less happy society.
But it's equally foolish to say that our fates are sealed.
That's not decided by the machines.
It's not even decided by the market.
It's decided by us and by our institutions.
Now, I started this talk with a paradox.
Our machines increasingly do our work for us.
Why doesn't that make our labor superfluous, our skills redundant?
Isn't it obvious that the road to our economic and social hell is paved with our own great inventions?
History has repeatedly offered an answer to that paradox.
The first part of the answer is that technology magnifies our leverage, increases the importance, the added value of our expertise, our judgment and our creativity.
That's the O-ring.
The second part of the answer is our endless inventiveness and bottomless desires means that we never get enough, never get enough.
There's always new work to do.
Adjusting to the rapid pace of technological change creates real challenges, seen most clearly in our polarized labor market and the threat that it poses to economic mobility.
Rising to this challenge is not automatic.
It's not costless.
It's not easy.
But it is feasible.
And here is some encouraging news.
Because of our amazing productivity, we're rich.
Of course we can afford to invest in ourselves and in our children as America did a hundred years ago with the high school movement.
Arguably, we can't afford not to.
Now, you may be thinking, Professor Autor has told us a heartwarming tale about the distant past, the recent past, maybe the present, but probably not the future.
Because everybody knows that this time is different.
Is this time different?
Of course this time is different.
Every time is different.
On numerous occasions in the last 200 years, scholars and activists have raised the alarm that we are running out of work and making ourselves obsolete: for example, the Luddites in the early 1800s; US Secretary of Labor James Davis in the mid-1920s; Nobel Prize-winning economist Wassily Leontief in 1982; and of course, many scholars, pundits, technologists and media figures today.
These predictions strike me as arrogant.
These self-proclaimed oracles are in effect saying, "If I can't think of what people will do for work in the future, then you, me and our kids aren't going to think of it either.
" I don't have the guts to take that bet against human ingenuity.
Look, I can't tell you what people are going to do for work a hundred years from now.
But the future doesn't hinge on my imagination.
If I were a farmer in Iowa in the year 1900, and an economist from the 21st century teleported down to my field and said, "Hey, guess what, farmer Autor, in the next hundred years, agricultural employment is going to fall from 40 percent of all jobs to two percent purely due to rising productivity.
What do you think the other 38 percent of workers are going to do?
" I would not have said, "Oh, we got this.
We'll do app development, radiological medicine, yoga instruction, Bitmoji.
I wouldn't have had a clue.
But I hope I would have had the wisdom to say, "Wow, a 95 percent reduction in farm employment with no shortage of food.
That's an amazing amount of progress.
I hope that humanity finds something remarkable to do with all of that prosperity.
And by and large, I would say that it has.
Thank you very much.
A celebration of natural hair
I am from the South Side of Chicago, and in seventh grade, I had a best friend named Jenny who lived on the Southwest Side of Chicago.
Jenny was white, and if you know anything about the segregated demographics of Chicago, you know that there are not too many black people who live on the Southwest Side of Chicago.
But Jenny was my girl and so we would hang out every so often after school and on the weekends.
And so one day we were hanging out in her living room, talking about 13-year-old things, and Jenny's little sister Rosie was in the room with us, and she was sitting behind me just kind of playing in my hair, and I wasn't thinking too much about what she was doing.
But at a pause in the conversation, Rosie tapped me on the shoulder.
She said, "Can I ask you a question?
I said, "Yeah, Rosie.
"Are you black?
The room froze.
Jenny and Rosie's mom was not too far away.
She was in the kitchen and she overheard the conversation, and she was mortified.
She said, "Rosie! You can't ask people questions like that.
" And Jenny was my friend, and I know she was really embarrassed.
I felt kind of bad for her, but actually I was not offended.
I figured it wasn't Rosie's fault that in her 10 short years on this earth, living on the Southwest Side of Chicago, she wasn't 100 percent sure what a black person looked like.
That's fair.
But what was more surprising to me was, in all of this time I had spent with Jenny and Rosie's family -- hanging out with them, playing with them, even physically interacting with them -- it was not until Rosie put her hands in my hair that she thought to ask me if I was black.
That was the first time I would realize how big of a role the texture of my hair played in confirming my ethnicity, but also that it would play a key role in how I'm viewed by others in society.
Garrett A.Morgan and Madame CJ Walker were pioneers of the black hair-care and beauty industry in the early 1900s.
They're best known as the inventors of chemically-based hair creams and heat straightening tools designed to permanently, or semipermanently, alter the texture of black hair.
Oftentimes when we think about the history of blacks in America, we think about the heinous acts and numerous injustices that we experienced as people of color because of the color of our skin, when in fact, in post-Civil War America, it was the hair of an African-American male or female that was known as the most "telling feature" of Negro status, more so than the color of the skin.
And so before they were staples of the multibillion-dollar hair-care industry, our dependency on tools and products, like the hair relaxer and the pressing comb, were more about our survival and advancement as a race in postslavery America.
Over the years, we grew accustomed to this idea that straighter and longer hair meant better and more beautiful.
We became culturally obsessed with this idea of having what we like to call "good hair.
" This essentially means: the looser the curl pattern, the better the hair.
And we let these institutionalized ideas form a false sense of hierarchy that would determine what was considered a good grade of hair and what was not.
What's worse is that we let these false ideologies invade our perception of ourselves, and they still continue to infect our cultural identity as African-American women today.
So what did we do?
We went to the hair salon every six to eight weeks, without fail, to subject our scalps to harsh straightening chemicals beginning at a very young age -- sometimes eight, 10 -- that would result in hair loss, bald spots, sometimes even burns on the scalp.
We fry our hair at temperatures of 450 degrees Fahrenheit or higher almost daily, to maintain the straight look.
Or we simply cover our hair up with wigs and weaves, only to let our roots breathe in private where no one knows what's really going on under there.
We adopted these practices in our own communities, and so it's no wonder why today the typical ideal vision of a professional black woman, especially in corporate America, tends to look like this, rather than like this.
And she certainly doesn't look like this.
In September of this year, a federal court ruled it lawful for a company to discriminate against hiring an employee based on if she or he wears dreadlocks.
In the case, the hiring manager in Mobile, Alabama is on record as saying, "I'm not saying yours are messy, but you know what I'm talking about.
" Well, what was she talking about?
Did she think that they were ugly?
Or maybe they were just a little too Afrocentric and pro-black-looking for her taste.
Or maybe it's not about Afrocentricity, and it's more just about it being a little too "urban" for the professional setting.
Perhaps she had a genuine concern in that they looked "scary" and that they would intimidate the clients and their customer base.
All of these words are ones that are too often associated with the stigma attached to natural hairstyles.
And this has got to change.
In 2013, a white paper published by the Deloitte Leadership Center for Inclusion, studied 3,000 individuals in executive leadership roles on the concept of covering in the workplace based on appearance, advocacy, affiliation and association.
When thinking about appearance-based covering, the study showed that 67 percent of women of color cover in the workplace based on their appearance.
Of the total respondents who admitted to appearance-based covering, 82 percent said that it was somewhat to extremely important for them to do so for their professional advancement.
Now, this is Ursula Burns.
She is the first African-American female CEO of a Fortune 500 company -- of Xerox.
She's known by her signature look, the one that you see here.
A short, nicely trimmed, well-manicured Afro.
Burns is what we like to call a "natural girl.
" And she is paving the way and showing what's possible for African-American women seeking to climb the corporate ladder, but still wishing to wear natural hairstyles.
But today the majority of African-American women who we still look to as leaders, icons and role models, still opt for a straight-hair look.
Now, maybe it's because they want to -- this is authentically how they feel best -- but maybe -- and I bet -- a part of them felt like they had to in order to reach the level of success that they have attained today.
There is a natural hair movement that is sweeping the country and also in some places in Europe.
Millions of women are exploring what it means to transition to natural hair, and they're cutting off years and years of dry, damaged ends in order to restore their natural curl pattern.
I know because I have been an advocate and an ambassador for this movement for roughly the last three years.
After 27 years of excessive heat and harsh chemicals, my hair was beginning to show extreme signs of wear and tear.
It was breaking off, it was thinning, looking just extremely dry and brittle.
All those years of chasing that conventional image of beauty that we saw earlier was finally beginning to take its toll.
I wanted to do something about it, and so I started what I called the "No Heat Challenge," where I would refrain from using heat styling tools on my hair for six months.
And like a good millennial, I documented it on social media.
I documented as I reluctantly cut off three to four inches of my beloved hair.
I documented as I struggled to master these natural hairstyles, and also as I struggled to embrace them and think that they actually looked good.
And I documented as my hair texture slowly began to change.
By sharing this journey openly, I learned that I was not the only woman going through this and that in fact there were thousands and thousands of other women who were longing to do the same.
So they would reach out to me and they would say, "Cheyenne, how did you do that natural hairstyle that I saw you with the other day?
What new products have you started using that might be a little better for my hair texture as it begins to change?
" Or, "What are some of the natural hair routines that I should begin to adopt to slowly restore the health of my hair?
" But I also found that there were a large number of women who were extremely hesitant to take that first step because they were paralyzed by fear.
Fear of the unknown -- what would they now look like?
How would they feel about themselves with these natural hairstyles?
And most importantly to them, how would others view them?
Over the last three years of having numerous conversations with friends of mine and also complete strangers from around the world, I learned some really important things about how African-American women identify with their hair.
And so when I think back to that hiring manager in Mobile, Alabama, I'd say, "Actually, no.
We don't know what you're talking about.
" But here are some things that we do know.
We know that when black women embrace their love for their natural hair, it helps to undo generations of teaching that black in its natural state is not beautiful, or something to be hidden or covered up.
We know that black women express their individuality and experience feelings of empowerment by experimenting with different hairstyles regularly.
And we also know that when we're invited to wear our natural hair in the workplace, it reinforces that we are uniquely valued and thus helps us to flourish and advance professionally.
I leave you with this.
In a time of racial and social tension, embracing this movement and others like this help us to rise above the confines of the status quo.
So when you see a woman with braids or locks draping down her back, or you notice your colleague who has stopped straightening her hair to work, do not simply approach her and admire and ask her if you can touch it -- Really appreciate her.
Applaud her.
Heck, even high-five her if that's what you feel so inclined to do.
Because this -- this is more than about a hairstyle.
It's about self-love and self-worth.
It's about being brave enough not to fold under the pressure of others' expectations.
And about knowing that making the decision to stray from the norm does not define who we are, but it simply reveals who we are.
And finally, being brave is easier when we can count on the compassion of others.
So after today, I certainly hope that we can count on you.
Thank you.
Your fingerprints reveal more than you think
Do you ever stop and think, during a romantic dinner, "I've just left my fingerprints all over my wine glass.
Or do you ever worry, when you visit a friend, about leaving a little piece of you behind on every surface that you touch?
And even this evening, have you paid any attention to sit without touching anything?
Well, you're not alone.
Thankfully, criminals underestimate the power of fingerprints, too.
And I'm not just talking about the twisted parting of lines that make our fingerprint unique.
I'm talking about an entire world of information hiding in a small, often invisible thing.
In fact, fingerprints are made up of molecules that belong to three classes: sweat molecules that we all produce in very different amounts molecules that we introduce into our body and then we sweat out and molecules that we may contaminate our fingertips with when we come across substances like blood, paint, grease, but also invisible substances.
And molecules are the storytellers of who we are and what we've been up to.
We just need to have the right technology to make them talk.
So let me take you on a journey of unthinkable capabilities.
Katie has been raped and her lifeless body has been found in the woods three days later, after her disappearance.
The police is targeting three suspects, having narrowed down the search from over 20 men who had been seen in that area on the same day.
The only piece of evidence is two very faint, overlapping fingerprints on the tape that was found wrapped around Katie's neck.
Often, faint and overlapping fingerprints cannot help the police to make an identification.
And until recently, this might have been the end of the road, but this is where we can make the difference.
The tape is sent to our labs, where we're asked to use our cutting-edge technology to help with the investigation.
And here, we use an existing form of mass spectrometry imaging technology that we have further developed and adapted specifically for the molecular and imaging analysis of fingerprints.
In essence, we fire a UV laser at the print, and we cause the desorption of the molecules from the print, ready to be captured by the mass spectrometer.
Mass spectrometry measures the weight of the molecules -- or as we say, the mass -- and those numbers that you see there, they indicate that mass.
But more crucially, they indicate who those molecules are -- whether I'm seeing paracetamol or something more sinister, forensically speaking.
We applied this technology to the evidence that we have and we found the presence of condom lubricants.
In fact, we've developed protocols that enable us to even suggest what brand of condom might have been used.
So we pass this information to the police, who, meanwhile, have obtained a search warrant and they found the same brand of condom in Dalton's premises.
And with Dalton and Thomson also having records for sexual assaults, then it is Chapman that may become the less likely suspect.
But is this information enough to make an arrest?
Of course not, and we are asked to delve deeper with our investigation.
So we found out, also, the presence of other two very interesting molecules.
One is an antidepressant, and one is a very special molecule.
It only forms in your body if you drink alcohol and consume cocaine at the same time.
And alcohol is known to potentiate the effects of cocaine, so here, we now have a hint on the state of mind of the individual whilst perpetrating the crime.
We passed this information to the police, and they found out that, actually, Thomson is a drug addict, and he also has a medical record for psychotic episodes, for which presumably the antidepressant was prescribed.
So now Thomson becomes the more likely suspect.
But the reality is that I still don't know where these molecules are coming from, from which fingerprint, and who those two fingerprints belong to.
Fear not.
Mass spectrometry imaging can help us further.
In fact, the technology is so powerful that we can see where these molecules are on a fingerprint.
Like you see in this video, every single one of those peaks corresponds to a mass, every mass to a molecule, and we can interrogate the software, by selecting each of those molecules, as to where they are present on a fingermark.
And some images are not very revealing, some are better, some are really good.
And we can create multiple images of the same mark -- in theory, hundreds of images of the same fingerprint -- for as many of the molecules that we have detected.
So step one for overlapping fingerprints, chances are, especially if they come from different individuals, that the molecular composition is not identical, so let's ask the software to visualize those unique molecules just present in one fingermark and not in the other one.
By doing so, that's how we can separate the two ridge patterns.
And this is really important because the police now are able to identify one of the two fingerprints, which actually corresponds to Katie.
And they've been able to say so because they've compared the two separate images with one taken posthumously from Katie.
So now, we can concentrate on one fingerprint only -- that of the killer's.
So then, step two where are these three molecules that I've seen?
Well, let's interrogate the software -- show me where they are.
And by doing this, only portions of the image of the killer's fingerprint show up.
In other words, those substances are only present in the killer's print.
So now our molecular findings start matching very nicely the police intelligence about Thomson, should that fingerprint belong to him.
But the reality is that that print is still not good enough to make an identification.
Step three: since we can generate hundreds of images of the same fingerprint, why don't we superimpose them, and by doing so, try to improve the rich pattern of continuity and clarity?
That's the result.
We now have a very clear image of the fingerprint and the police can run it through the database.
The match comes out to Thomson.
Thomson is our killer.
Katie, the suspects and the circumstances of the crime aren't real, but the story contains elements of the real police casework we've been confronted with, and is a composite of the intelligence that we can provide -- that we have been able to provide the police.
And I'm really, really thrilled that after nine years of intense research, as of 2017, we are able to contribute to police investigations.
Mine is no longer a dream; it's a goal.
We're going to do this wider and wider, bigger and bigger, and we're going to know more about the suspect, and we're going to build an identikit.
I believe this is also a new era for criminal profiling.
The work of the criminologist draws on the expert recognition of behavioral patterns that have been observed before to belong to a certain type, to a certain profile.
As opposed to this expert but subjective evaluation, we're trying to do the same thing, but from the molecular makeup of the fingerprint, and the two can work together.
I did say that molecules are storytellers, so information on your health, your actions, your lifestyle, your routines, they're all there, accessible in a fingerprint.
And molecules are the storytellers of our secrets in just a touch.
Thank you.
(Audience) Wow.
Our immigration conversation is broken - here's how to have a better one
We often hear these days that the immigration system is broken.
I want to make the case today that our immigration conversation is broken and to suggest some ways that, together, we might build a better one.
In order to do that, I'm going to propose some new questions about immigration, the United States and the world, questions that might move the borders of the immigration debate.
I'm not going to begin with the feverish argument that we're currently having, even as the lives and well-being of immigrants are being put at risk at the US border and far beyond it.
Instead, I'm going to begin with me in graduate school in New Jersey in the mid-1990s, earnestly studying US history, which is what I currently teach as a professor at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee.
And when I wasn't studying, sometimes to avoid writing my dissertation, my friends and I would go into town to hand out neon-colored flyers, protesting legislation that was threatening to take away immigrants' rights.
Our flyers were sincere, they were well-meaning, they were factually accurate.
But I realize now, they were also kind of a problem.
Here's what they said: "Don't take away immigrant rights to public education, to medical services, to the social safety net.
They work hard.
They pay taxes.
They're law-abiding.
They use social services less than Americans do.
They're eager to learn English, and their children serve in the US military all over the world.
" Now, these are, of course, arguments that we hear every day.
Immigrants and their advocates use them as they confront those who would deny immigrants their rights or even exclude them from society.
And up to a certain point, it makes perfect sense that these would be the kinds of claims that immigrants' defenders would turn to.
But in the long term, and maybe even in the short term, I think these arguments can be counterproductive.
Because it's always an uphill battle to defend yourself on your opponent's terrain.
And, unwittingly, the handouts my friends and I were handing out and the versions of these arguments that we hear today were actually playing the anti-immigrants game.
We were playing that game in part by envisioning that immigrants were outsiders, rather than, as I'm hoping to suggest in a few minutes, people that are already, in important ways, on the inside.
It's those who are hostile to immigrants, the nativists, who have succeeded in framing the immigration debate around three main questions.
First, there's the question of whether immigrants can be useful tools.
How can we use immigrants?
Will they make us richer and stronger?
The nativist answer to this question is no, immigrants have little or nothing to offer.
The second question is whether immigrants are others.
Can immigrants become more like us?
Are they capable of becoming more like us?
Are they capable of assimilating?
Are they willing to assimilate?
Here, again, the nativist answer is no, immigrants are permanently different from us and inferior to us.
And the third question is whether immigrants are parasites.
Are they dangerous to us?
And will they drain our resources?
Here, the nativist answer is yes and yes, immigrants pose a threat and they sap our wealth.
I would suggest that these three questions and the nativist animus behind them have succeeded in framing the larger contours of the immigration debate.
These questions are anti-immigrant and nativist at their core, built around a kind of hierarchical division of insiders and outsiders, us and them, in which only we matter, and they don't.
And what gives these questions traction and power beyond the circle of committed nativists is the way they tap into an everyday, seemingly harmless sense of national belonging and activate it, heighten it and inflame it.
Nativists commit themselves to making stark distinctions between insiders and outsiders.
But the distinction itself is at the heart of the way nations define themselves.
The fissures between inside and outside, which often run deepest along lines of race and religion, are always there to be deepened and exploited.
And that potentially gives nativist approaches resonance far beyond those who consider themselves anti-immigrant, and remarkably, even among some who consider themselves pro-immigrant.
So, for example, when Immigrants Act allies answer these questions the nativists are posing, they take them seriously.
They legitimate those questions and, to some extent, the anti-immigrant assumptions that are behind them.
When we take these questions seriously without even knowing it, we're reinforcing the closed, exclusionary borders of the immigration conversation.
So how did we get here?
How did these become the leading ways that we talk about immigration?
Here, we need some backstory, which is where my history training comes in.
During the first century of the US's status as an independent nation, it did very little to restrict immigration at the national level.
In fact, many policymakers and employers worked hard to recruit immigrants to build up industry and to serve as settlers, to seize the continent.
But after the Civil War, nativist voices rose in volume and in power.
The Asian, Latin American, Caribbean and European immigrants who dug Americans' canals, cooked their dinners, fought their wars and put their children to bed at night were met with a new and intense xenophobia, which cast immigrants as permanent outsiders who should never be allowed to become insiders.
By the mid-1920s, the nativists had won, erecting racist laws that closed out untold numbers of vulnerable immigrants and refugees.
Immigrants and their allies did their best to fight back, but they found themselves on the defensive, caught in some ways in the nativists' frames.
When nativists said that immigrants weren't useful, their allies said yes, they are.
When nativists accused immigrants of being others, their allies promised that they would assimilate.
When nativists charged that immigrants were dangerous parasites, their allies emphasized their loyalty, their obedience, their hard work and their thrift.
Even as advocates welcomed immigrants, many still regarded immigrants as outsiders to be pitied, to be rescued, to be uplifted and to be tolerated, but never fully brought inside as equals in rights and respect.
After World War II, and especially from the mid-1960s until really recently, immigrants and their allies turned the tide, overthrowing mid-20th century restriction and winning instead a new system that prioritized family reunification, the admission of refugees and the admission of those with special skills.
But even then, they didn't succeed in fundamentally changing the terms of the debate, and so that framework endured, ready to be taken up again in our own convulsive moment.
That conversation is broken.
The old questions are harmful and divisive.
So how do we get from that conversation to one that's more likely to get us closer to a world that is fairer, that is more just, that's more secure?
I want to suggest that what we have to do is one of the hardest things that any society can do: to redraw the boundaries of who counts, of whose life, whose rights and whose thriving matters.
We need to redraw the boundaries.
We need to redraw the borders of us.
In order to do that, we need to first take on a worldview that's widely held but also seriously flawed.
According to that worldview, there's the inside of the national boundaries, inside the nation, which is where we live, work and mind our own business.
And then there's the outside; there's everywhere else.
According to this worldview, when immigrants cross into the nation, they're moving from the outside to the inside, but they remain outsiders.
Any power or resources they receive are gifts from us rather than rights.
Now, it's not hard to see why this is such a commonly held worldview.
It's reinforced in everyday ways that we talk and act and behave, down to the bordered maps that we hang up in our schoolrooms.
The problem with this worldview is that it just doesn't correspond to the way the world actually works, and the way it has worked in the past.
Of course, American workers have built up wealth in society.
But so have immigrants, particularly in parts of the American economy that are indispensable and where few Americans work, like agriculture.
Since the nation's founding, Americans have been inside the American workforce.
Of course, Americans have built up institutions in society that guarantee rights.
But so have immigrants.
They've been there during every major social movement, like civil rights and organized labor, that have fought to expand rights in society for everyone.
So immigrants are already inside the struggle for rights, democracy and freedom.
And finally, Americans and other citizens of the Global North haven't minded their own business, and they haven't stayed within their own borders.
They haven't respected other nations' borders.
They've gone out into the world with their armies, they've taken over territories and resources, and they've extracted enormous profits from many of the countries that immigrants are from.
In this sense, many immigrants are actually already inside American power.
With this different map of inside and outside in mind, the question isn't whether receiving countries are going to let immigrants in.
They're already in.
The question is whether the United States and other countries are going to give immigrants access to the rights and resources that their work, their activism and their home countries have already played a fundamental role in creating.
With this new map in mind, we can turn to a set of tough, new, urgently needed questions, radically different from the ones we've asked before -- questions that might change the borders of the immigration debate.
Our three questions are about workers' rights, about responsibility and about equality.
First, we need to be asking about workers' rights.
How do existing policies make it harder for immigrants to defend themselves and easier for them to be exploited, driving down wages, rights and protections for everyone?
When immigrants are threatened with roundups, detention and deportations, their employers know that they can be abused, that they can be told that if they fight back, they'll be turned over to ICE.
When employers know that they can terrorize an immigrant with his lack of papers, it makes that worker hyper-exploitable, and that has impacts not only for immigrant workers but for all workers.
Second, we need to ask questions about responsibility.
What role have rich, powerful countries like the United States played in making it hard or impossible for immigrants to stay in their home countries?
Picking up and moving from your country is difficult and dangerous, but many immigrants simply do not have the option of staying home if they want to survive.
Wars, trade agreements and consumer habits rooted in the Global North play a major and devastating role here.
What responsibilities do the United States, the European Union and China -- the world's leading carbon emitters -- have to the millions of people already uprooted by global warming?
And third, we need to ask questions about equality.
Global inequality is a wrenching, intensifying problem.
Income and wealth gaps are widening around the world.
Increasingly, what determines whether you're rich or poor, more than anything else, is what country you're born in, which might seem great if you're from a prosperous country.
But it actually means a profoundly unjust distribution of the chances for a long, healthy, fulfilling life.
When immigrants send money or goods home to their family, it plays a significant role in narrowing these gaps, if a very incomplete one.
It does more than all of the foreign aid programs in the world combined.
We began with the nativist questions, about immigrants as tools, as others and as parasites.
Where might these new questions about worker rights, about responsibility and about equality take us?
These questions reject pity, and they embrace justice.
These questions reject the nativist and nationalist division of us versus them.
They're going to help prepare us for problems that are coming and problems like global warming that are already upon us.
It's not going to be easy to turn away from the questions that we've been asking towards this new set of questions.
It's no small challenge to take on and broaden the borders of us.
It will take wit, inventiveness and courage.
The old questions have been with us for a long time, and they're not going to give way on their own, and they're not going to give way overnight.
And even if we manage to change the questions, the answers are going to be complicated, and they're going to require sacrifices and tradeoffs.
And in an unequal world, we're always going to have to pay attention to the question of who has the power to join the conversation and who doesn't.
But the borders of the immigration debate can be moved.
It's up to all of us to move them.
Thank you.
What I learned about freedom after escaping North Korea
I was born in 1993 in the northern part of North Korea, in a town called Hyesan, which is on the border with China.
I had loving parents and one older sister.
Before I was even 10 years old, my father was sent to a labor camp for engaging in illegal trading.
Now, by "illegal trading" -- he was selling clogs, sugar, rice and later copper to feed us.
In 2007, my sister and I decided to escape.
She was 16 years old, and I was 13 years old.
I need you to understand what the word "escape" means in the context of North Korea.
We were all starving, and hunger means death in North Korea.
So it was the only option for us.
I didn't even understand the concept of escape, but I could see the lights from China at night, and I wondered if I go where the light is, I might be able to find a bowl of rice.
It's not like we had a grand plan or maps.
We did not know anything about what was going to happen.
Imagine your apartment building caught fire.
I mean, what would you do?
Would you stay there to be burned, or would you jump off out of the window and see what happens?
That's what we did.
We jumped out of the house instead of the fire.
North Korea is unimaginable.
It's very hard for me when people ask me what it feels like to live there.
To be honest, I tell you: you can't even imagine it.
The words in any language can't describe, because it's a totally different planet, as you cannot imagine your life on Mars right now.
For example, the word "love" has only one meaning: love for the Dear Leader.
There's no concept of romantic love in North Korea.
And if you don't know the words, that means you don't understand the concept, and therefore, you don't even realize that concept is even a possibility.
Let me give you another example.
Growing up in North Korea, we truly believed that our Dear Leader is an almighty god who can even read my thoughts.
I was even afraid to think in North Korea.
We are told that he's starving for us, and he's working tirelessly for us, and my heart just broke for him.
When I escaped to South Korea, people told me that he was actually a dictator, he had cars, many, many resorts, and he had an ultraluxurious life.
And then I remember looking at a picture of him, realizing for the first time that he is the largest guy in the picture.
And it hit me.
Finally, I realized he wasn't starving.
But I was never able to see that before, until someone told me that he was fat.
Really, someone had to teach me that he was fat.
If you have never practiced critical thinking, then you simply see what you're told to see.
The biggest question also people ask me is: "Why is there no revolution inside North Korea?
Are we dumb?
Why is there no revolution for 70 years of this oppression?
" And I say: If you don't know you're a slave, if you don't know you're isolated or oppressed, how do you fight to be free?
I mean, if you know you're isolated, that means you are not isolated.
Not knowing is the true definition of isolation, and that's why I never knew I was isolated when I was in North Korea.
I literally thought I was in the center of the universe.
So here is my idea worth spreading: a lot of people think humans inherently know what is right and wrong, the difference between justice and injustice, what we deserve and we don't deserve.
I tell them: BS.
Everything, everything must be taught, including compassion.
If I see someone dying on the street right now, I will do anything to save that person.
But when I was in North Korea, I saw people dying and dead on the streets.
I felt nothing.
Not because I'm a psychopath, but because I never learned the concept of compassion.
Only, I felt compassion, empathy and sympathy in my heart after I learned the word "compassion" and the concept, and I feel them now.
Now I live in the United States as a free person.
Thank you.
And recently, the leader of the free country, our President Trump, met with my former god.
And he decided human rights is not important enough to include in his agendas, and he did not talk about it.
And it scares me.
We live in a world right now where a dictator can be praised for executing his uncle, for killing his half brother, killing thousands of North Koreans.
And that was worthy of praise.
And also it made me think: perhaps we all need to be taught something new about freedom now.
Freedom is fragile.
I don't want to alarm you, but it is.
It only took three generations to make North Korea into George Orwell's "1984.
" It took only three generations.
If we don't fight for human rights for the people who are oppressed right now who don't have a voice, as free people here, who will fight for us when we are not free?
I don't know.
I think it's wonderful that we care about climate change, animal rights, gender equality, all of these things.
The fact that we care about animals' rights, that means that's how beautiful our heart is, that we care about someone who cannot speak for themselves.
And North Koreans right now cannot speak for themselves.
They don't have internet in the 21st century.
We don't have electricity, and it is the darkest place on earth right now.
Now I want to say something to my fellow North Koreans who are living in that darkness.
They might not believe this, but I want to tell them that an alternative life is possible.
Be free.
From my experience, literally anything is possible.
I was bought, I was sold as a slave.
But now I'm here, and that is why I believe in miracles.
The one thing that I learned from history is that nothing is forever in this world.
And that is why we have every reason to be hopeful.
Thank you.
Medical tech designed to meet Africa's needs
Like every passionate software engineer out there, I closely follow technology companies in Silicon Valley, pretty much the same way soccer fans follow their teams in Europe.
I read articles on tech blogs and listen to podcasts on my phone.
But after I finish the article, lock my phone and unplug the headphones, I'm back in sub-Saharan Africa, where the landscape is not quite the same.
We have long and frequent power outages, low penetration of computers, slow internet connections and a lot of patients visiting understaffed hospitals.
Since the HIV epidemic, hospitals have been struggling to manage regular HIV treatment records for increasing volumes of patients.
For such environments, importing technology systems developed elsewhere has not worked, but in 2006, I joined Baobab Health, a team that uses locally based engineers to develop suitable interventions that are addressing health care challenges in Malawi.
We designed an electronic health record system that is used by health care workers while seeing patients.
And in the process we realized that we not only had to design the software, we had to implement the infrastructure as well.
We don't have enough medical staff to comprehensively examine every patient, so we embedded clinical guidelines within the software to guide nurses and clerks who assist with handling some of the workload.
Everyone has a birthday, but not everyone knows their birthday, so we wrote algorithms to handle estimated birthdates as complete dates.
How do we follow up patients living in slums with no street and house numbers?
We used landmarks to approximate their physical addresses.
Malawi had no IDs to uniquely identify patients, so we had to implement unique patient IDs to link patient records across clinics.
The IDs are printed as barcodes on labels that are stuck on personal health booklets kept by each patient.
With this barcoded ID, a simple scan with a barcode reader quickly pulls up the patient's records.
No need to rewrite their personal details on paper registers at every visit.
And suddenly, queues became shorter.
This meant patients, typically mothers with little children on their backs, had to spend less time waiting to be assisted.
And if they lose their booklets, their records can still be pulled by searching with their names.
Now, the way we pronounce and spell names varies tremendously.
We freely mix R's and L's, English and vernacular versions of their names.
Even soundex, a standard method for grouping words by how similar they sound, was not good enough.
So we had to modify it to help us link and match existing records.
Before the iPhone, software engineers developed for personal computers, but from our experience, we knew our power system is not reliable enough for personal computers.
So we repurposed touch screen point-of-sale terminals that are meant for retail shops to become clinical workstations.
At the time, we imported internet appliances called i-Openers that were manufactured during the dot-com era by a failed US company.
We modified their screens to add touch sensors and their power system to run from rechargeable batteries.
When we started, we didn't find a reliable network to transmit data, especially from rural hospitals.
So we built our own towers, created a wireless network and linked clinics in Lilongwe, Malawi's capital.
With a team of engineers working within a hospital campus, we observed health care workers use the system and iteratively build an information system that is now managing HIV records in all major public hospitals in Malawi.
These are hospitals serving over 2,000 HIV patients, each clinic.
Now, health care workers who used to spend days to tally and prepare quarterly reports are producing the same reports within minutes, and health care experts from all over the world are now coming to Malawi to learn how we did it.
It is inspiring and fun to follow technology trends across the globe, but to make them work in low-resourced environments like public hospitals in sub-Saharan Africa, we have had to become jacks-of-all-trades and build whole systems, including the infrastructure, from the ground up.
Thank you.
What's missing from the American immigrant narrative
Hi, everyone, my name is Elizabeth, and I work on the trading floor.
But I'm still pretty new to it.
I graduated from college about a year and a half ago, and to be quite honest, I'm still recovering from the recruiting process I had to go through to get here.
Now, I don't know about you, but this is the most ridiculous thing that I still remember about the whole process, was asking insecure college students what their biggest passion was.
Like, do you expect me to have an answer for that?
Of course I did.
And to be quite honest, I really showed those recruiters just how passionate I was by telling them all about my early interest in the global economy, which, conveniently, stemmed from the conversations that I would overhear my immigrant parents having about money and the fluctuating value of the Mexican peso.
They love a good personal story.
But you know what?
I lied.
And not because the things I said weren't true -- I mean, my parents were talking about this stuff.
But that's not really why I decided to jump into finance.
I just really wanted to pay my rent.
And here's the thing.
The reality of having to pay my rent and do real adult things is something that we're rarely willing to admit to employers, to others and even to ourselves.
I know I wasn't about to tell my recruiters that I was there for the money.
And that's because for the most part, we want to see ourselves as idealists and as people who do what they believe in and pursue the things that they find the most exciting.
But the reality is very few of us actually have the privilege to do that.
Now, I can't speak for everyone, but this is especially true for young immigrant professionals like me.
And the reason this is true has something to do with the narratives that society has kept hitting us with in the news, in the workplace and even by those annoyingly self-critical voices in our heads.
So what narratives am I referring to?
Well, there's two that come to mind when it comes to immigrants.
The first is the idea of the immigrant worker.
You know, people that come to the US in search of jobs as laborers, or field workers, dish washers.
You know, things that we might consider low-wage jobs but the immigrants?
That's a good opportunity.
The news nowadays has convoluted that whole thing quite a bit.
You could say that it's made America's relationship with immigrants complicated.
And as immigrant expert George Borjas would have put it, it's kind of like America wanted workers, but then, they got confused when we got people instead.
I mean, it's natural that people want to strive to put a roof over their heads and live a normal life, right?
So for obvious reasons, this narrative has been driving me a little bit crazy.
But it's not the only one.
The other narrative that I'm going to talk about is the idea of the superimmigrant.
In America, we love to idolize superimmigrants as the ideal symbols of American success.
I grew up admiring superimmigrants, because their existence fueled my dreams and it gave me hope.
The problem with this narrative is that it also seems to cast a shadow on those that don't succeed or that don't make it in that way, as less than.
And for years, I got caught up in the ways in which it seemed to celebrate one type of immigrant while villainizing the other.
I mean, were my parents' sacrifices not enough?
Was the fact that my dad came home from the metal factory covered in corrosive dust, was that not super?
Don't get me wrong, I've internalized both of these narratives to some degree, and in many ways, seeing my heroes succeed, it has pushed me to do the same.
But both of these narratives are flawed in the ways in which they dehumanize people if they don't fit within a certain mold or succeed in a certain way.
And this really affected my self-image, because I started to question these ideas for who my parents were and who I was, and I started to wonder, "Am I doing enough to protect my family and my community from the injustices that we felt every day?
" So why did I choose to "sell out" while watching tragedies unfold right in front of me?
Now, it took me a long time to come to terms with my decisions.
And I really have to thank the people running the Hispanic Scholarship Fund, or HSF, for validating this process early on.
And the way that HSF -- an organization that strives to help students achieve higher education through mentorship and scholarships -- the way that they helped calm my anxiety, it was by telling me something super familiar.
Something that you all probably have heard before in the first few minutes after boarding a flight.
In case of an emergency, put your oxygen mask on first before helping those around you.
Now I understand that this means different things to different people.
But for me, it meant that immigrants couldn't and would never be able to fit into any one narrative, because most of us are actually just traveling along a spectrum, trying to survive.
And although there may be people that are further along in life with their oxygen mask on and secured in place, there are undoubtedly going to be others that are still struggling to put theirs on before they can even think about helping those around them.
Now, this lesson really hit home for me, because my parents, while they wanted us to be able to take advantage of opportunities in a way that we wouldn't have been able to do so anywhere else -- I mean, we were in America, and so as a child, this made me have these crazy, ambitious and elaborate dreams for what my future could look like.
But the ways in which the world sees immigrants, it affects more than just the narratives in which they live.
It also impacts the ways laws and systems can affect communities, families and individuals.
I know this firsthand, because these laws and systems, well, they broke up my family, and they led my parents to return to Mexico.
And at 15, my eight-year-old brother and I, we found ourselves alone and without the guidance that our parents had always provided us with.
Despite being American citizens, we both felt defeated by what we had always known to be the land of opportunity.
Now, in the weeks that followed my parents' return to Mexico, when it became clear that they wouldn't be able to come back, I had to watch as my eight-year-old brother was pulled out of school to be with his family.
And during this same time, I wondered if going back would be validating my parents' sacrifices.
And so I somehow convinced my parents to let me stay, without being able to guarantee them that I'd find somewhere to live or that I'd be OK.
But to this day, I will never forget how hard it was having to say goodbye.
And I will never forget how hard it was watching my little brother crumble in their arms as I waved goodbye from the other side of steel grates.
Now, it would be naive to credit grit as the sole reason for why I've been able to take advantage of so many opportunities since that day.
I mean, I was really lucky, and I want you to know that.
Because statistically speaking, students that are homeless or that have unstable living conditions, well, they rarely complete high school.
But I do think that it was because my parents had the trust in letting me go that I somehow found the courage and strength to take on opportunities even when I felt unsure or unqualified.
Now, there's no denying that there is a cost to living the American dream.
You do not have to be an immigrant or the child of immigrants to know that.
But I do know that now, today, I am living something close to what my parents saw as their American dream.
Because as soon as I graduated from college, I flew my younger brother to the United States to live with me, so that he, too, could pursue his education.
Still, I knew that it would be hard flying my little brother back.
I knew that it would be hard having to balance the demands and professionalism required of an entry-level job while being responsible for a child with dreams and ambitions of his own.
But you can imagine how fun it is to be 24 years old, at the peak of my youth, living in New York, with an angsty teenage roommate who hates doing the dishes.
The worst.
But when I see my brother learning how to advocate for himself, and when I see him get excited about his classes and school, I do not doubt anything.
Because I know that this bizarre, beautiful and privileged life that I now live is the true reason for why I decided to pursue a career that would help me and my family find financial stability.
I did not know it back then, but during those eight years that I lived without my family, I had my oxygen mask on and I focused on survival.
And during those same eight years, I had to watch helplessly the pain and hurt that it caused my family to be apart.
What airlines don't tell you is that putting your oxygen mask on first while seeing those around you struggle -- it takes a lot of courage.
But being able to have that self-control is sometimes the only way that we are able to help those around us.
Now I'm super lucky to be in a place where I can be there for my little brother so that he feels confident and prepared to take on whatever he chooses to do next.
But I also know that because I am in this position of privilege, I also have the responsibility to make sure that my community finds spaces where they can find guidance, access and support.
I can't claim to know where each and every one of you are on your journey through life, but I do know that our world is one that flourishes when different voices come together.
My hope is that you will find the courage to put your oxygen mask on when you need to, and that you will find the strength to help those around you when you can.
Thank you.
A hospital tour in Nigeria
Just to put everything in context, and to kind of give you a background to where I'm coming from, so that a lot of the things I'm going to say, and the things I'm going to do -- or things I'm going to tell you I've done -- you will understand exactly why and how I got motivated to be where I am.
I graduated high school in Cleveland, Ohio, 1975.
And just like my parents did when they finished studying abroad, we went back home.
Finished university education, got a medical degree, 1986.
And by the time I was an intern house officer, I could barely afford to maintain my mother's 13-year-old car -- and I was a paid doctor.
This brings us to why a lot of us, who are professionals, are now, as they say, in diaspora.
Now, are we going to make that a permanent thing, where we all get trained, and we leave, and we don't go back?
Perhaps not, I should certainly hope not -- because that is not my vision.
All right, for good measure, that's where Nigeria is on the African map, and just there is the Delta region that I'm sure everybody's heard of.
People getting kidnapped, where the oil comes from, the oil that sometimes I think has driven us all crazy in Nigeria.
But, critical poverty: this slide is from a presentation I gave not that long ago.
org tells the story of the gap between Africa and the rest of the world in terms of health care.
Very interesting.
How many people do you think are on that taxi?
And believe it or not, that is a taxi in Nigeria.
And the capital -- well, what used to be the capital of Nigeria -- Lagos, that's a taxi, and you have police on them.
So, tell me, how many policemen do you think are on this taxi?
And now?
So, when these kind of people -- and, believe me, it's not just the police that use these taxis in Lagos.
We all do.
I've been on one of these, and I didn't have a helmet, either.
And it just reminds me of the thought of what happens when one of us on a taxi like this falls off, has an accident and needs a hospital.
Believe it or not, some of us do survive.
Some of us do survive malaria; we do survive AIDS.
And like I tell my family, and my wife reminds me every time, "You're risking your life, you know, every time you go to that country.
" And she's right.
Every time you go there, you know that if you actually need critical care -- critical care of any sort -- if you have an accident -- of which there are many, there are accidents everywhere -- where do they go?
Where do they go when they need help for this kind of stuff?
I'm not saying instead of, I'm saying as well as, AIDS, TB, malaria, typhoid -- the list goes on.
I'm saying, where do they go when they're like me?
When I go back home -- and I do all kinds of things, I teach, I train -- but I catch one of these things, or I'm chronically ill with one of those, where do they go?
What's the economic impact when one of them dies or becomes disabled?
I think it's quite significant.
This is where they go.
These are not old pictures and these are not from some downtrodden -- this is a major hospital.
In fact, it's from a major teaching hospital in Nigeria.
Now that is less than a year old, in an operating room.
That's sterilizing equipment in Nigeria.
You remember all that oil?
Yes, I'm sorry if it upsets some of you, but I think you need to see this.
That's the floor, OK?
You can say some of this is education.
You can say it's hygiene.
I'm not pleading poverty.
I'm saying we need more than just, you know, vaccination, malaria, AIDS, because I want to be treated in a proper hospital if something happens to me out there.
In fact, when I start running around saying, "Hey, boys and girls, you're cardiologists in the U.S, can you come home with me and do a mission?
" I want them to think, "Well there's some hope.
Now, have a look at that.
That's the anesthesiology machine.
And that's my specialty, right?
Anesthesiology and critical care -- look at that bag.
It's been taped with tape that we even stopped using in the U.S
And believe me, these are current pictures.
Now, if something like this, which has happened in the U.S, that's where they go.
This is the intensive care unit in which I work.
All right, this is a slide from a talk I gave about intensive care units in Nigeria, and jokingly we refer to it as "Expensive Scare.
" Because it's scary and it's expensive, but we need to have it, OK?
So, these are the problems.
There are no prizes for telling us what the problems are, are there?
I think we all know.
And several speakers before and speakers after me are going to tell us even more problems.
These are a few of them.
So, what did I do?
There we go -- we're going on a mission.
We're going to do some open-heart surgery.
I was the only Brit, on a team of about nine American cardiac surgeons, cardiac nurse, intensive care nurse.
We all went out and did a mission and we've done three of them so far.
Just so you know, I do believe in missions, I do believe in aid and I do believe in charity.
They have their place, but where do they go for those things we talked about earlier?
Because it's not everyone that's going to benefit from a mission.
Health is wealth, in the words of Hans Rosling.
You get wealthier faster if you are healthy first.
So, here we are, mission.
Big trouble.
Open-heart surgery in Nigeria -- big trouble.
That's Mike, Mike comes out from Mississippi.
Does he look like he's happy?
It took us two days just to organize the place, but hey, you know, we worked on it.
Does he look happy?
Yes, that's the medical advice the committee chairman says, "Yes, I told you, you weren't going to be able to, you can't do this, I just know it.
" Look, that's the technician we had.
So yes, you go on, all right?
I got him to come with me -- anesthesia tech -- come with me from the U.
Yes, let's just go work this thing out.
See, that's one of the problems we have in Nigeria and in Africa generally.
We get a lot of donated equipment.
Equipment that's obsolete, equipment that doesn't quite work, or it works and you can't fix it.
And there's nothing wrong with that, so long as we use it and we move on.
But we had problems with it.
We had severe problems there.
He had to get on the phone.
This guy was always on the phone.
So what we going to do now?
It looks like all these Americans are here and yes, one Brit, and he's not going to do anything -- he thinks he's British actually, and he's actually Nigerian, I just thought about that.
We eventually got it working, is the truth, but it was one of these.
Even older than the one you saw.
The reason I have this picture here, this X-ray, it's just to tell you where and how we were viewing X-rays.
Do you figure where that is?
It was on a window.
I mean, what's an X-ray viewing box?
Well, nowadays everything's on PAX anyway.
You look at your X-rays on a screen and you do stuff with them, you email them.
But we were still using X-rays, but we didn't even have a viewing box! And we were doing open-heart surgery.
OK, I know it's not AIDS, I know it's not malaria, but we still need this stuff.
Oh yeah, echo -- this was just to get the children ready and the adults ready.
People still believe in Voodoo.
Heart disease, VSD, hole in the heart, tetralogies.
You still get people who believe in it and they came.
At 67 percent oxygen saturation, the normal is about 97.
Her condition, open-heart surgery that as she required, would have been treated when she was a child.
We had to do these for adults.
So, we did succeed and we still do.
We've done three.
We're planning another one in July in the north of the country.
So, we certainly still do open-heart, but you can see the contrast between everything that was shipped in -- we ship everything, instruments.
We had explosions because the kit was designed and installed by people who weren't used to it.
The oxygen tanks didn't quite work right.
But how many did we do the first one?
We did 12 open-heart surgical patients successfully.
Here is our very first patient, out of intensive care, and just watch that chair, all right?
This is what I mean about appropriate technology.
That's what he was doing, propping up the bed because the bed simply didn't work.
Have you seen one of those before?
Doesn't matter, it worked.
I'm sure you've all seen or heard this before: "We, the willing, have been doing so much with so little for so long -- (Applause) -- we are now qualified to do anything with nothing.
Thank you.
Sustainable Solutions -- this was my first company.
This one's sole aim is to provide the very things that I think are missing.
So, we put my hand in my pocket and say, "Guys, let's just buy stuff.
Let's go set up a company that teaches people, educates them, gives them the tools they need to keep going.
And that's a perfect example of one.
Usually when you buy a ventilator in a hospital, you buy a different one for children, you buy a different one for transport.
This one will do everything, and it will do it at half the price and doesn't need compressed air.
If you're in America and you don't know about this one, we do, because we make it our duty to find out what's appropriate technology for Africa -- what's appropriately priced, does the job, and we move on.
Anesthesia machine: multi-parameter monitor, operating lights, suction.
This little unit here -- remember your little 12-volt plug in the car, that charges your, whatever, Game Boy, telephone?
That's exactly how the outlets are designed.
Yes, it will take a solar panel.
Yes a solar panel will charge it.
But if you've got mains as well, it will charge the batteries in there.
And guess what?
We have a little pedal charger too, just in case.
And guess what, if it all fails, if you can find a car that's still got a live battery and you stick it in, it will still work.
Then you can customize it.
Is it dental surgery you want?
General surgery you want?
Decide which instruments, stock it up with consumables.
And currently we're working on oxygen -- oxygen delivery on-site.
The technology for oxygen delivery is not new.
Oxygen concentrators are very old technology.
What is new, and what we will have in a few months, I hope, is that ability to use this same renewable energy system to provide and produce oxygen on site.
Zeolite -- it's not new -- zeolite removes nitrogen from air and nitrogen is 78 percent of air.
If you take nitrogen out, what's left?
Oxygen, pretty much.
So that's not new.
What we're doing is applying this technology to it.
These are the basic features of my device, or our device.
This is what makes it so special.
Apart from the awards it's won, it's portable and it's certified.
It's registered, the MHRA -- and the CE mark, for those who don't know, for Europe, is the equivalent of the FDA in the U.
If you compare it with what's on the market, price-wise, size-wise, ease of use, complexity.
This picture was taken last year.
These are members of my graduating class, 1986.
It was in this gentleman's house in the Potomac, for those of you who are familiar with Maryland.
There are too many of us outside and everybody, just to borrow a bit from Hans -- Hans Rosling, he's my guy -- if the size of the text represents what gets the most attention, it's the problems.
But what we really need are African solutions that are appropriate for Africa -- looking at the culture, looking at the people, looking at how much money they've got.
African people, because they will do it with a passion, I hope.
And lots and lots of that little bit down there, sacrifice.
You have to do it.
Africans have to do it, in conjunction with everyone else.
Thank you.
How fake news does real harm
I want to tell you a story about a girl.
But I can't tell you her real name.
So let's just call her Hadiza.
Hadiza is 20.
She's shy, but she has a beautiful smile that lights up her face.
But she's in constant pain.
And she will likely be on medication for the rest of her life.
Do you want to know why?
Hadiza is a Chibok girl, and on April 14, 2014, she was kidnapped by Boko Haram terrorists.
She managed to escape, though, by jumping off the truck that was carrying the girls.
But when she landed, she broke both her legs, and she had to crawl on her tummy to hide in the bushes.
She told me she was terrified that Boko Haram would come back for her.
She was one of 57 girls who would escape by jumping off trucks that day.
This story, quite rightly, caused ripples around the world.
People like Michelle Obama, Malala and others lent their voices in protest, and at about the same time -- I was living in London at the time -- I was sent from London to Abuja to cover the World Economic Forum that Nigeria was hosting for the first time.
But when we arrived, it was clear that there was only one story in town.
We put the government under pressure.
We asked tough questions about what they were doing to bring these girls back.
Understandably, they weren't too happy with our line of questioning, and let's just say we received our fair share of "alternative facts.
Influential Nigerians were telling us at the time that we were naive, we didn't understand the political situation in Nigeria.
But they also told us that the story of the Chibok girls was a hoax.
Sadly, this hoax narrative has persisted, and there are still people in Nigeria today who believe that the Chibok girls were never kidnapped.
Yet I was talking to people like these -- devastated parents, who told us that on the day Boko Haram kidnapped their daughters, they ran into the Sambisa Forest after the trucks carrying their daughters.
They were armed with machetes, but they were forced to turn back because Boko Haram had guns.
For two years, inevitably, the news agenda moved on, and for two years, we didn't hear much about the Chibok girls.
Everyone presumed they were dead.
But in April last year, I was able to obtain this video.
This is a still from the video that Boko Haram filmed as a proof of life, and through a source, I obtained this video.
But before I could publish it, I had to travel to the northeast of Nigeria to talk to the parents, to verify it.
I didn't have to wait too long for confirmation.
One of the mothers, when she watched the video, told me that if she could have reached into the laptop and pulled our her child from the laptop, she would have done so.
For those of you who are parents, like myself, in the audience, you can only imagine the anguish that that mother felt.
This video would go on to kick-start negotiation talks with Boko Haram.
And a Nigerian senator told me that because of this video they entered into those talks, because they had long presumed that the Chibok girls were dead.
Twenty-one girls were freed in October last year.
Sadly, nearly 200 of them still remain missing.
I must confess that I have not been a dispassionate observer covering this story.
I am furious when I think about the wasted opportunities to rescue these girls.
I am furious when I think about what the parents have told me, that if these were daughters of the rich and the powerful, they would have been found much earlier.
And I am furious that the hoax narrative, I firmly believe, caused a delay; it was part of the reason for the delay in their return.
This illustrates to me the deadly danger of fake news.
So what can we do about it?
There are some very smart people, smart engineers at Google and Facebook, who are trying to use technology to stop the spread of fake news.
But beyond that, I think everybody here -- you and I -- we have a role to play in that.
We are the ones who share the content.
We are the ones who share the stories online.
In this day and age, we're all publishers, and we have responsibility.
In my job as a journalist, I check, I verify.
I trust my gut, but I ask tough questions.
Why is this person telling me this story?
What do they have to gain by sharing this information?
Do they have a hidden agenda?
I really believe that we must all start to ask tougher questions of information that we discover online.
Research shows that some of us don't even read beyond headlines before we share stories.
Who here has done that?
I know I have.
But what if we stopped taking information that we discover at face value?
What if we stop to think about the consequence of the information that we pass on and its potential to incite violence or hatred?
What if we stop to think about the real-life consequences of the information that we share?
Thank you very much for listening.
How we can stop Africa's scientific brain drain?
So many of us who care about sustainable development and the livelihood of local people do so for deeply personal reasons.
I grew up in Cameroon, a country of enchanting beauty and rich biodiversity, but plagued by poor governance, environmental destruction, and poverty.
As a child, like we see with most children in sub-Saharan Africa today, I regularly suffered from malaria.
To this day, more than one million people die from malaria every year, mostly children under the age of five, with 90 percent occurring in sub-Saharan Africa.
When I was 18, I left Cameroon in search of better educational opportunities.
At the time, there was just one university in Cameroon, but Nigeria next door offered some opportunities for Cameroonians of English extraction to be trained in various fields.
So I moved there, but practicing my trade, upon graduation as an ecologist in Nigeria, was an even bigger challenge.
So I left the continent when I was offered a scholarship to Boston University for my PhD.
It is disheartening to see that, with all our challenges, with all the talents, with all the skills we have in Africa as a continent, we tend to solve our problems by parachuting in experts from the West for short stays, exporting the best and brightest out of Africa, and treating Africa as a continent in perpetual need of handouts.
After my training at Boston University, I joined a research team at the University of California's Institute of the Environment and Sustainability because of its reputation for groundbreaking research and the development of policies and programs that save the lives of millions of people the world over, including in the developing world.
And it has been shown that for every skilled African that returns home, nine new jobs are created in the formal and informal sectors.
So as part of our program, therefore, to build a sustainable Africa together, we are leading a multi-initiative to develop the Congo Basin Institute, a permanent base where Africans can work in partnership with international researchers, but working out their own solutions to their own problems.
We are using our interdisciplinary approach to show how universities, NGOs and private business can partner in international development.
So instead of parachuting in experts from the West for short stays, we are building a permanent presence in Africa, a one-stop shop for logistics, housing and development of collaborative projects between Africans and international researchers.
So this has allowed students like Michel to receive high-quality training in Africa.
Michel is currently working in our labs to investigate the effects of climate change on insects, for his PhD, and has already secured his post-doctorate fellowship that will enable him to stay on the continent.
Also through our local help program, Dr. Gbenga Abiodun, a young Nigerian scientist, can work as a post-doctoral fellow with the Foundation for Professional Development in the University of Western Cape in South Africa and the University of California at the same time, investigating the effects of climate variability and change on malaria transmission in Africa.
Indeed, Gbenga is currently developing models that will be used as an early warning system to predict malaria transmission in Africa.
So rather than exporting our best and brightest out of Africa, we are nurturing and supporting local talent in Africa.
For example, like me, Dr. Eric Fokam was trained in the US.
He returned home to Cameroon, but couldn't secure the necessary grants, and he found it incredibly challenging to practice and learn the science he knew he could.
So when I met Eric, he was on the verge of returning to the US.
But we convinced him to start collaborating with the Congo Basin Institute.
Today, his lab in Buea has over half a dozen collaborative grants with researchers from the US and Europe supporting 14 graduate students, nine of them women, all carrying out groundbreaking research understanding biodiversity under climate change, human health and nutrition.
So rather than buy into the ideas of Africa taking handouts, we are using our interdisciplinary approach to empower Africans to find their own solutions.
Right now, we are working with local communities and students, a US entrepreneur, scientists from the US and Africa to find a way to sustainably grow ebony, the iconic African hardwood.
Ebonies, like most African hardwood, are exploited for timber, but we know very little about their ecology, what disperses them, how they survive in our forest 80 to 200 years.
This is Arvin, a young PhD student working in our labs, conducting what is turning out to be some cutting-edge tissue culture work.
Arvin is holding in her hands the first ebony tree that was produced entirely from tissues.
This is unique in Africa.
We can now show that you can produce African timber from different plant tissues -- leaves, stems, roots -- in addition from generating them from seeds, which is a very difficult task.
So other students will take the varieties of ebony which Arvin identifies in our lab, graft them to produce saplings, and work with local communities to co-produce ebony with local fruit tree species in their various farms using our own tree farm approach, whereby we invite all the farmers to choose their own tree species they want in their farms.
So in addition to the ebony, the species which the farmers choose themselves will be produced using our modern techniques and incorporated into their land-use systems, so that they start benefiting from these products while waiting for the ebony to mature.
Today we are planting 15,000 ebony trees in Cameroon, and for the first time, ebony won't be harvested from the middle of a pristine forest.
This is the model for our African hardwoods, and we are extending this to include sapele and bubinga, other highly prized hardwoods.
So if these examples existed when I was 18, I would never have left, but because of initiatives by the Congo Basin Institute, I am coming back, but I'm not coming back alone.
I'm bringing with me Western scientists, entrepreneurs and students, the best science from the best universities in the world, to work and to live in Africa.
But we all need to scale up this local, powerful and empowering approach.
So far we have half a dozen universities and NGOs as partners.
We are planning to build a green facility that will expand on our existing laboratory space and add more housing and conference facilities to promote a long-term disciplinary approach.
I want it to offer more opportunities to young African scholars, and would scale it up by leveraging the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture's existing network of 17 research stations across sub-Saharan Africa.
The tables are starting to turn and I hope they keep turning, to reach several African nations like Cte d'Ivoire, Tanzania and Senegal, among the top fastest growing economies that can attract several opportunities for private-sector investment.
We want to give more opportunities to African scholars, and I long to see a day when the most intelligent Africans will stay on this continent and receive high-quality education through initiatives like the Congo Basin Institute, and when that happens, Africa will be on the way to solving Africa's problems.
And in 50 years, I hope someone will be giving a TED Talk on how to stop the brain drain of Westerners leaving your homes to work and live in Africa.
Thank you.

