--- Nigeria plans to recruit more troops
Nigeria is planning to recruit more troops and officers to beef up personnel of the security agencies, to contain the threats and security concerns in the land. 
Vice President Yemi Osinbajo this when he received clergymen from the Northern part of Nigeria under the auspices of the Arewa Pastors Forum for Peace, on a courtesy visit to the Presidential Villa on Monday. 
Professor Osinbajo said; “We are doing everything that needs to be done. 
“We are handling security well, and as you know, including military deployment in diverse fields, like the Boko Haram in the Northeast.
In fact, we have to now recruit more into the army, resources also – to buy more arms and more platforms.” 
Government Priority He stated that the Buhari administration considered tackling insecurity a very serious task. 
The Vice President urged the group as ‘Men of God,” to come up with ideas on how to find lasting peace. 
The President of the Forum, Bishop Mbayo Japhet said the visit to the Presidential Villa was to support the government and described Professor Osinbajo as an apostle of peace. 
--- Nigerian Government to maintain subsidy on rail transport fares – Minister
The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, on Monday, said the government will not further increase ticket prices on the Abuja-Kaduna rail route, Several people have called for an increase in the ticket price to ensure the railway makes enough profit to pay back the loans incurred in building it and become sustainable. 
But Amaechi, who spoke in an interview, said railways don’t make profits (from passenger ticket prices) across the world because they are usually subsidized. 
“If we increase the cost of the tickets, what about the poor man that wants to move from Abuja to Kaduna, that lives in Kaduna to save the cost of accommodation,” he said. 
Meanwhile, to solve the problem of ticket racketeering on the Abuja-Kaduna rail route, the Minister said the Nigeria Railway Corporation (NRC) is set to roll out new locomotives and coaches. 
On the Lagos-Ibadan railway, the Minister declined to give a deadline for the route’s completion. 
 Amaechi said “What they told us the first time was April 2020. 
But they ran into problems. 
Their goods were yet to be cleared from the seaport. 
--- Federal Govt., U.S to sign agreement on assets repatriation
The Federal Government of Nigeria is to sign a tripartite agreement with the Island of New Jersey and the United States of America on repatriation of looted assets worth $321million. 
This is part of the Federal Government’s efforts to recover more stolen funds stashed abroad.
The Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN, is expected to sign on behalf of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, he has departed Nigeria to United States-Nigeria on Sunday
The meeting is an annual event between Nigeria and the U.S. aimed at reviewing bilateral relations and taking necessary steps to advance mutual interest in all diplomatic areas among the two countries. 
Some other Nigerian government delegates expected to be part of the meeting include: the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo; Minister of Defence, Maj.-Gen. Bashir Magashi (rtd); Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama; National Security Adviser, Maj.-Gen. Babagana Monguno (rtd) as well as Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development.
--- Plateau Governor orders arrest of community leaders as death toll increases
Death toll has risen to 22 in the killings in some communities in the central zone of Plateau State. 
Governor Simon Lalong confirmed the casualty figure on Tuesday when he met with the community leaders at the Government House in Jos, the state capital. 
While appraising the security situation before it gets out of hand, he stated his displeasure with the efforts of the security agencies and the role of leaders in some of the communities that have been under severe attacks recently. 
The governor decried the latest attacks where gunmen invaded Ruboi and Marish communities in Bokkos Local Government Area of the state. 
During the unfortunate incident, at least 15 people were killed and five others injured with several buildings destroyed.   
Governor Lalong read the riot act at the meeting and condemned the activities of those he called elements who were bent on taking the state back to the dark days of chaos. 
He, therefore, ordered the arrest of community leaders in the affected areas until the suspects involved in the various attacks were produced. 
The Commissioner of Police in Plateau, Mr Isaac Akinmoyede, was among the stakeholders present at the meeting. 
In his briefing, he cautioned the community leaders against instigating members to take up arms in situations and not to harbour criminals in their domain. 
The meeting held two days after reports that 13 were killed in an attack by gunmen on Kwatas village also in Bokkos Local Government Area of the state. 
According to police authorities in the state, the assailants suspected to be herdsmen attacked the village on Sunday night. 
--- Fire guts sections of Lagos market
Some buildings at the Balogun market, located on Lagos Island are currently on fire.
This incident comes about a week after a similar inferno razed a timber market in the Mushin area of Lagos. 
--- President Buhari cautions against reprisal on Plateau attacks
President Muhammadu Buhari has condemned attacks that resulted in the death of 13 persons in Plateau State, assuring Citizens that terrorism, banditry, kidnapping and associated crimes would be defeated. 
President Buhari reiterated that “revenge, hatred and violent attacks should have no place in a multi-ethnic, multicultural and multi-religious society as we have in this country.’’ 
The President called on community and religious leaders to counsel the youths on the need for peaceful co-existence. 
President Buhari sends condolences to families of the victims, government and people of Plateau State. 
--- Nigeria partners with Netherlands on education
The Nigerian Government and the Kingdom of the Netherlands are partnering to explore areas of partnership in the education sector as a means of deepening relationship. 
The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Education, Sonny Echono, stated this in Abuja when a team from the Netherlands Institute of International Relations Clingendael, led by its General Director, Monika Sie Dhian Ho, paid him a working visit. 
The Permanent Secretary said Nigeria stands to gain a lot from the partnership. 
According to the Permanent Secretary, “there are many aspects of the education sector that needs the intervention of investors from the advanced world”.  
Sonny Echono reiterated that the Nigerian Government was opened to all investment interventions in the sector.
 Echono urged the Dutch government to consider partnering with Nigeria in developing the Agricultural education, Information and Communication Technology and Vocational education subsectors. 
Earlier, the General Director of the Institute, Monika Sie Dhian said that the team was sent by the Dutch government to find areas of collaboration with the Nigerian government to help its developmental efforts. 
--- Senate sets priorities ahead of resumption
The Nigerian Senate has set as top most on its agenda in 2020, the issues of security, Petroleum Industry Bill, PIB and electoral reforms as the Lawmakers reconvene in plenary this Tuesday after a month Christmas recess. 
President of the senate Dr. Ahmad Lawan observed that the heightening spate of insecurity was of growing concern that requires the collective effort of the Executive and Legislature, alongside all tiers of government at the State and Local levels. 
The Senate President added that the Upper Chamber, upon resuming on Tuesday 28, 2020, would adjourn till Wednesday in accordance with its tradition to honour the demise of a member of the House of Representative, Muhammadu Gawo, representing Garki/Babura Federal Constituency in Jigawa State, who passed away in Dubai during the Christmas break. 
--- Cross River State seeks support for  Deep Sea Port
The Cross River State government has appealed to Nigerian government for assistance towards completing the super high way and Bakasi Deep Sea Port, which the State is currently constructing. 
The State Governor, Professor Ben Ayade made the appeal on Monday, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, after he met with President Muhammadu Buhari. 
The Governor said the two projects were of significant importance to both Cross River State and the country at large. 
He said: “I will like to commend Mr. President most especially for his usual kindness towards the people of Nigeria and Cross River in particular. 
However, the discussion also went beyond that to his key trust, which is Nigeria beyond oil.  
Governor Ayade assured the people that he would continue to implement projects that would impact on their lives. 
 Employment Generation He announced that the State intends to generate employment for over two thousand young people through agriculture. 
The Governor said President Buhari would soon visit the State to inaugurate an empowerment scheme for the youth tagged ‘G-Money 
--- NAF destroys ISWAPs’ staging area in Borno
The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) has destroyed an Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) staging area at Gashigar in Borno, and neutralised several of the insurgents. 
NAF said it also took out terrorists’ hideouts at Tumbun Rego on the fringes of Lake Chad and at Bula Bello near Sambisa Forest all in Borno. 
Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, NAF Director of Public Relations and Information who made this known in Abuja, added that it was achieved in air strikes conducted by the Air Task Force (ATF) of Operation LAFIYA DOLE on Friday and Saturday on the heels of credible intelligence reports. 
 --- Tax revenue will reduce borrowing in Nigeria – SGF
Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr. Boss Mustapha has stated that if more revenue could be generated from tax there would be less need for government to borrow. 
Boss Mustapha made this known in his office when the Executive Chairman, Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), Mr. Mohammed M. Nami and Service’s Board paid him a courtesy visit. 
The SGF advised the FIRS Chairman to be proactive in his tax collection drive. 
The SGF congratulated the FIRS Chairman on his recent appointment.
--- President Buhari authorises air raid on bandits’ hideouts in Niger State
President Muhammadu Buhari has authorised the deployment of air power to counter the menace of bandits operating in the forest area bordering Kaduna, Niger and Zamfara states, The President has received assurances that with the harmattan dust gradually easing its hold on the skies, fighter aircraft would this week join the efforts to provide effective air attacks against bandits, kidnappers and cattle rustlers that have been attacking remote communities around Dogon Gona forest in Niger State. 
President Buhari described the repeated attacks leading to the losses of several lives in the communities “as a disaster for the nation.” 
In line with this directive, the Nigerian Air Force is setting up refuelling facilities at Minna, Niger State to support the aircraft operations. 
President Buhari commiserates with the government and people of Niger State following the attacks and the loss of lives that followed. 
The president assures that victim communities in the state will not be abandoned by the rest of the country. 
--- Nigeria, India to strengthen bilateral ties
India says it is ready to strengthen bilateral relations with Nigeria in the areas of Trade and investments, Security, Education, Aviation and medical tourism for the benefit of both countries. 
The Indian High Commissioner to Nigeria, Mr. Abhay Thakur, stated this, during the celebration of the Indian 70th year Republic Day and the 60th anniversary of the establishment of Nigeria/India diplomatic relations, organized by the Commission in Abuja, the Nigeria’s capital. 
Abhay Thakur explained that “India is Nigeria’s largest trading partner, and Nigeria is Indian largest partner in Africa.
Nigeria has been the third largest supplier of crude oil and second largest supplier of Liquefied Natural Gas (NLG) to India in the year 2019-20.” 
India stands together with Nigeria in its fight against Boko Hatam. 
The Nigerian State Minister of Foreign Affairs, Ambassador  Zubairu Dada, reiterated Nigerias commitment to boost diplomatic relations with India for the mutual benefits of the two countries. 
Zubairu said: “As Nigeria and India celebrate their 60th year of the establishment of the diplomatic relations and India celebrating its 70th years anniversary of its National Day, Nigeria is committed to consolidating on the existing of mutual trust on deepening cooperation in various fields. 
India and Nigeria have been enjoying diplomatic relations since November 1958. 
--- Clerics pray for peace in Nigeria
The prayer session was conducted during a wedding Fathia attended by President Muhammadu Buhari between his niece, Hajiya Hadiza Lawal and Muhammad Tukur Ibrahim, at the National Mosque Abuja. 
At the event, the President blessed the couple, while clerics used the opportunity to pray for extensively for peace and stability in the country. 
The President’s family at the Islamic wedding was represented by Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Muhammed Bello alongside the Dan Madamin Daura, Alhaji Musa Haro.
--- Nigeria legalizes agreement with Macao on transfer of sentenced persons
President Muhammadu Buhari has assented to the Instrument of Ratification of the Agreement on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons between the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the Government of the Macao Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China. 
This is sequel to the Federal Executive Council’s Decision of August 1, 2018, which approved and directed the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, to prepare the Instrument of Ratification of the above Agreement for the President’s signature. 
Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina revealed this to Journalists in a statement issued on Friday.
--- EFCC to repatriate high profile looters – Magu
The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) says it is set to repatriate high profiled looters on its watch list in some parts of the world. 
The EFCC chairman, Mr Ibrahim Magu disclosed this on Tuesday in Ilorin, the Kwara state capital during a brief chat with newsmen. 
He announced that a massive protest against corruption would be staged by the Commission and youth Corp members across the federation on the 14th of next month (February) to create awareness on the dangers of corruption. 
He added that no ongoing corruption cases across the country would be abandoned midway, assuring that all such suspects would be charged to court as soon as investigations on their cases are completed. 
Magu, said the “Ilorin Zonal Office was not established to witch-hunt anyone, 
“We need the cooperation of the media in making Nigeria corruption free. 
--- Supreme Court upholds Simon Lalong’s election as Plateau Governor
The Supreme Court has affirmed the election of Simon Lalong as the governor of Plateau State. 
Jeremiah Useni of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had filed an appeal at the apex court to challenge the victory of the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the election. 
His appeal was, however, struck out in a unanimous judgment of the Supreme Court delivered by Justice Adamu Galinje. 
--- Supreme Court dismisses appeal challenging Tambuwal’s victory as Sokoto Governor
Aminu Tambuwal of the PDP has been affirmed as the winner of the 2019 governorship election in Sokoto State by Nigeria’s Supreme Court. 
In a judgment read by Justice Uwani Abba-Aji, the justices dismissed the appeal filed by the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its governorship candidate, Ahmad Aliyu for lacking in merit. 
On Nov. 22, 2019 a five-man panel of the Court of Appeal, presided over by Justice Usaini Murkhtar, dismissed the appeals. 
The Appeal Court ruled that the appellant failed to prove his case beyond reasonable doubt, thereby dismissed the case.
--- Supreme court upholds Ganduje’s victory
The Supreme court has declared Ganduje duly elected governor of Kano state. 
The panel dismissed the petitions filed by the PDP and Yusuf, governorship candidate of the opposition party, on the grounds that the petitions lack merit. 
--- Minister tasks Nigerians on patriotism, commitment to nation building
The Minister of Information and Culture, Alh. Lai Mohammed has urged Nigerians to be patriotic so that the country could have meaningful development. 
The Minister made the call on Saturday while speaking with Newsmen on the sidelines of a wedding ceremony at the Nigerian Air Force Protestant Church, Lagos. 
He said that Nigerians needed to know that the change they wanted to see in the government should begin from individual homes. 
“We quite appreciate the aspirations of Nigerians and the government remains focused and determined to ensure that all the promises regarding the economy and creating more jobs will come through. 
 “Everybody must play his or her own role by being patriotic and making sure we do not incite violence against ourselves or the government. 
--- Nigeria has made substantial progress in 20 years – Senate President
President of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan, believes that Nigeria has made significant progress over the last twenty years since the country’s return to democracy in 1999. 
Senator Lawan stated this in a speech delivered at the 17th Edition of the Daily Trust Dialogue with the theme “Twenty Years of Democracy in Nigeria: Strengths, Weaknesses and Opportunities”, which held in Abuja on Thursday.
 The Senate President, who was the Special Guest of Honour at the event, was represented by the Deputy Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi. 
 The Senate President while harping on the need to strengthen the country’s economy, 
He said the National Assembly passed legislations towards increasing Nigeria’s revenue base in addition to ensuring appropriate application. 
Among the dignitaries who attended the event are the former Vice President of Nigeria, Mohammed Namadi Sambo who Chaired the occasion; Governor of Ekiti State and Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum, Kayode Fayemi, and immediate past Chairman of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Chief John Oyegun.
--- Nasarawa State is enjoying stability – Governor Sule   
Governor Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State says security has greatly improved in his state, as a result of measures put in place to check the activities of criminals. 
He made the disclosure, while speaking to State House correspondents, after he met with President Muhammadu Buhari. 
He said: “As a member of the APC and as a governor representing the party, I came in to pay respect to the leader of our party, Mr. President and I came in also to brief him about a state that has the greatest proximity to the Federal Capital, that is Nasarawa.
 It is very important for Mr. President to know what is happening in the state and I used the opportunity to brief him on certain issues, issues about security, issues about development that are taking place in Nasarawa.
Governor Sule said he was in the State House to thank President Buhari for establishing a Mobile Police Training Institute in Nasarawa State. 
--- Nigerian President nominates Kingsley Obiora as CBN Deputy Governor
President Muhammadu Buhari has sent the name of Dr Kingsley Isitua Obiora to the Senate for confirmation as Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria. 
In a letter to President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, President Buhari said the nomination was in accordance with the provision of Section 8(1) (2) of the Central Bank of Nigeria (Establishment) Act 2007. 
Dr Obiora, upon confirmation by the Senate, replaces Dr Joseph Nnanna, who retires on February 2, 2020. 
Dr Obiora holds a Bachelor’s degree in Economics and Statistics from the University of Benin, a Masters in Economics from the University of Ibadan, and a Doctorate in Monetary and International Economics, also from the University of Ibadan. 
He is currently an Alternate Executive Director in the International Monetary Fund (IMF) In Washington DC, United States of America. 
--- Nigerian Government declares Operation Amotekun an illegal outfit
The Federal Government has declared ‘Operation Amotekun’ an illegal outfit. 
This was disclosed in a statement signed by the Special Assistant, Media and Public Relations (Office of the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice), Dr. Umar Jibrilu Gwandu: “The setting up of the paramilitary organization called “Amotekun” is illegal and runs contrary to the provisions of the Nigerian law,” the statement read. 
The Attorney-General of the Federation Abubakar Malami (SAN) explained,  security is the responsibility of the federal government. 
But the Federal Government maintained that “the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) has established the Army, Navy and Airforce, including the Police and other numerous paramilitary organisations for the purpose of the defence of Nigeria”. 
According to the government, consequently, no other authority at the state level, whether the executive or legislature has the legal authority over defence. 
--- Imo Governorship Election: Supreme Court declares Uzodinma winner
The Supreme Court in a unanimous Judgment on Tuesday sacked Emeka Ihedioha as Governor of Imo State, declared Hope Uzodinma winner and ordered INEC to issue Uzodinma certificate of return. 
In the Judgment delivered by Justice Kudirat Kekere-Ekun, the court accordingly ordered the INEC to withdraw the Certificate of Return issued to Ihedioha and issue a fresh Certificate of Return to the candidate of the APC on grounds that he won majority of the lawful votes cast at the election. 
--- Kano Election Appeal: Supreme Court adjourns abruptly
The Supreme Court in Abuja, Nigeria has adjourned abruptly when one of the seven justices hearing the appeal in the 2019 Kano State Governorship Election suddenly fell ill during court sitting. 
The Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Tanko Mohammad, told the crowded court that one of its justices hearing the case is critically ill shortly after Counsel for Abbah Yusuf of the peoples Democratic party, Gboyega Awomolo adopted his brief and urged the court to allow the appeal. 
Justice Tanko Mohammad stated that the court will have to abruptly rise to reconvene shortly on January 14, 2020.
--- Armed Forces and Remembrance Day: VP Osinbajo eulogises fallen heroes
The Vice President of Nigeria, Professor Yemi Osinbajo has stated that the diverse people of Nigeria are a nation today because of the sacrifices of our heroes both past and present. 
The Vice President stated this in his remark at the 2020 Armed Forces and Remembrance Day Inter-Denominational Church Serve held at the National Christian Centre, Abuja. 
He also reiterated President Muhammadu Buhari commitment to the wellbeing of the armed forces. 
Call to Serve Delivering the Message titled “The Call to Serve” Church Of Christ In Nations (COCIN) President, Reverend Dr. Dachollom Chumang Datiri said we are all called to serve God and to serve humanity. 
The 1st Reading of the service was taken from the book of Genesis 3-1-19 and read by the Chief of Defence Staff, General Gabriel Olanisakin. While the 2nd reading was taken from the book of John 1:1-19 by the Senate Deputy Majority Leader, Honourable Peter Okpatasai. 
 Nation Building Chairman Planning Committee, Mrs. Olu Mustapha expressed gratitude to God and all the dignitaries who honoured the invitation and for the commitment to developing the nation. 
--- Gubernatorial Election Ruling: Police beefs up security in Sokoto
The Sokoto State Police Command says it has deployed no fewer than 1000 conventional and plain clothes Officers and men across Sokoto State. 
The move comes as the Supreme Court of Nigeria is set to hear the Appeal brought before it by the Gubernatorial Candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Alhaji Ahmed Aliyu Sokoto on Monday. 
The State Commissioner of Police, Mr Ibrahim Kaoje, said the measure was to ensure that peace reigns before and after the hearing. 
--- Foreigner are the ones smuggling into Nigeria: The Emir of Yashkira
The Emir of Yashkira, in the Baruteen local government area of Kwara state, North Central Nigeria, Alhaji Umar Sariki Sabikpasi II, has thrown his weight behind border closure, stressing that most of the  smuggling activities taking place in his jurisdiction were being perpetrated by non- indigenes. 
The Emir stated this in his palace when the Coordinator Joint Border Drill Operations, Comptroller Mohammed Uba Garba took his Campaign and sensitisation programmes to Border Communities in the state. 
The monarch noted that the Nigeria Customs Service is almost the heart of the Nation when it comes to revenue generation in the country. 
Healthy Growth The Traditional ruler disclosed that the policy on border closure is for the healthy growth of the Nigerian economy and advised that traditional leaders should always be involved in decision making process as well. 
He also advocated that strict measures be meted out to economic saboteurs and the licensed fuelling stations should be identified and those without license be closed. 
--- Kaduna Governor orders closure of gas retail shops in residential areas 
Governor Nasiru El-Rufai of Kaduna State has ordered the closure of all gas refill stations located within residential areas. 
The Governor, who gave the order appealed to residents to report such gas outlets to government for immediate action. 
While on a visit to the Saturday’s gas explosion at Sabon Tasha, Kaduna, he said the gas refill stations would be relocated to industrial layouts. 
“It is most unfortunate that this incident has happened, it has further proven that. 
Gas retail is a high risk activity that should not be allowed to be located in residential areas.  
“We will relocate them; we will give them land in industrial areas where adequate precautions to prevent things like this will be put in place. For now, we have to get all these gas refilling plants within the metropolis and towns relocated and shut down,” he stressed. 
The Governor also paid condolence visit to the family of Professor Simon Mallam who died in the incident and also visited victims of the gas explosion receiving treatment at St Gerald hospital, Kaduna. 
He prayed for the souls of those who died and quick recovery of those in hospitals.
--- Kwara approves disbursement of N21m to 2019 hajj pilgrims 
The Kwara State Governor, Mallam AbdulRahman AbdulRasaq has approved the disbursement of twenty one million naira to all the 2019 hajj pilgrims. 
The Executive Secretary of the State Muslims Pilgrims welfare Board, Alhaji Tunde Jimoh stated this on Monday while speaking with newsmen in Ilorin. 
According to him, the amount is the refund by the Saudi Arabian government for the services not rendered to the pilgrims. 
Meanwhile, pilgrims from Ilorin West are scheduled to come for their refund on Wednesday this week, those from Asa and Ilorin South on Thursday and pilgrims from Ilorin East and Moro on Friday also this week. 
Pilgrims from Kwara South are slated for Monday next week, those from Baruten, Patigi, Edu, Kaiama for Tuesday while non Kwaran Pilgrims are for Wednesday next week. 
Alhaji Jimoh urged all the 2019 pilgrims to come along with their original e-passports, one photocopy of their e-passport and receipt of payment of Hajj fare. 
--- Oyo Governor launches Armed Forces emblem with N3m 
The Governor of Oyo State, Seyi Makinde, has launched the 2020 Armed Forces and Remembrance Day emblem appeal with a N3m donation. 
Governor Makinde commended the efforts of those who paid the ultimate price while fighting for the peace and unity of Nigeria, enjoining all citizens to contribute towards supporting the families they left behind. 
Governor Makinde stated that the Oyo State government would continue to support the activities of the Nigerian Legion. 
Especially those viable projects meant for the benefit of the dependants of the fallen heroes. 
The Governor was represented at the event by the Deputy Governor, Rauf Olaniyan, he raised Funds for Veterans Earlier, the Chairman, Nigerian Legion, Oyo State Command, Michael Fajimi, said that the objective of the Armed Forces and Remembrance Day celebration and emblem launch was to raise funds for veterans who are still alive but incapacitated and for the welfare of widows, children and other dependents of the fallen soldiers. 
--- President Buhari restates desire for stability in West Africa
President Muhammadu Buhari has reiterated his desire for stability, peace, progress and prosperity in the entire West Africa. 
Responding to Umaro Muhktar Sissoco Embalo, the President-elect of Guinea Bissau, who came to Nigeria on a “thank you visit”.
President Buhari commended the out-going President, José Mário Vaz, himself a candidate in the elections for supporting the emergence of Embalo in the second round of balloting “in the interest of peace and stability.” 
He said history will remember President Mario Vaz for putting National interest above his own, emphasising that he cared for peace within the region. 
President-elect Embalo, a businessman-turned politician, was Prime Minister of Guinea Bissau under incumbent President Jose Mario Vaz between 2016 and 2018. 
He was a member of the ruling African Party of Independence of Guinea and Cape Verde (PAIGC) when he founded the Movement for Democratic Alternative (MADEM-G15) on which platform he won the elections. 
--- Nigerian government sets 10 year plan to achieve digital literacy
The Nigerian government has said that Nigeria would achieve digital literacy in the next 10 years. 
The Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Pantami, stated this at a media parley with journalists, he said this would be possible with the digital economy policies which the present administration is determined to implement. 
The Minister said that the digital literacy training would cut across several categories of Nigerians, and would be taken to all corners in the country. 
--- Pa Adamu has passed away 
President Muhammadu Buhari has condoled with family of the oldest surviving soldier of the Nigerian Army and World War 11 Veteran, Pa Adama Aduku, who passed on at the age of 101, describing him as a soldier’s soldier and an epitome of honour. 
The President prays that the almighty God will receive the soul of the departed, and comfort his family. 
--- Police Force promotes 74 officers in Kaduna
The Commissioner of Police, CP, Kaduna State Command, Ali Janga decorated about 74 officers who had just been promoted. 
The promotion of Ali was part of the Inspector-General of Police’s commitment to motivate personnel and strengthen the fight against crime in Nigeria. 
The Commissioner said the promotion was in line with the police agenda for improving security and stability. 
The CP commended the people of the State and the media for their continuous support to the command, especially in giving prompt information and complaints. 
--- Amina Mohammed wins Global Citizen Award
President Muhammadu Buhari has felicitated with United Nations Deputy Secretary General, Amina Mohammed, for winning the World Leader Prize at the inaugural Global Citizen award ceremony held in London. 
President Buhari extols the UN Deputy Secretary General for her contributions to global development, and relentless priming of world leaders to work towards achieving the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals and end extreme poverty by 2030. 
President Buhari wishes the United Nations Deputy Secretary General more prosperous years of achievements. 
--- 19 people loss of lives in Kogi attack
President Muhammadu Buhari has condemned the gruesome murder of 19 people by unknown gunmen in Tawari community of Kogi Local Government Area, Kogi State. 
Commenting on the sad incident, President Buhari said: “there is no excuse or justification for killing innocent people by anybody or group, and for whatever motive.’’ 
“The killings and revenge killings will only aggravate the cycle of violence, creating neither safety nor security for any side. 
The President called on citizens to always embrace dialogue in settling disputes. 
--- Support the administration of President Buhari
Former Governor of Oyo State, Abiola Ajimobi, has called on Nigerians to continue to place their trust in the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari.
He urged Nigerians to cooperate with his team, saying they are capable of ensuring the remarkable economic turn around that all Nigerians hope for.
The former governor gave this charge in a new year message issued by his Spokesman, Mr Bolaji Tunji, where he also charged members of the Oyo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress, APC, to embrace true reconciliation in the interest of the Party and the people of the State.
Ajimobi noted in the statement, “I want to assure all Nigerians that the love of the nation burns brightly in the heart of the President and he is determined to ensure that legacies that would stand the test of time are put in place in the country.”
He said, “Some people offended me and I offended some people too. 
But in the spirit of true reconciliation, we should forgive one another and allow the past to end with 2019,” he said.
--- Minister donates items to 120 Babies of the year 
The Minister of State in the Nigerian Federal capital territory administration, FCTA , Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, has donated baby items and cash to 120 babies delivered in selected Primary Health Care Centres across the six Area Councils of the territory, to celebrate the New Year.
The minister who was represented by the Acting Executive Secretary of Primary Health Care Centre, Dr. Iwot Ndaeyo also tasked mothers on early training of their children, just as she emphasised that children are gifts from God.
Aliyu used the occasion to remind mothers of the need to ensure that their babies complete the routine immunization before the age of two years, just as she called on them to keep the immunization card safe.
The ministerial team also visited Old Kutunku Primary Health Care Centre in Gwagwalada Area Council, Kunchigoro Primary Health Care Centre in Abuja Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), Ushafa Primary Health Care in Bwari Area Council, Dabi Bako Primary Health Care in Kwali Area Council and New Township Clinic in Abaji Area CounIbrahimd
--- New Year: President Buhari felicitates with Nigerians, highlights successes
President Muhammadu Buhari has felicitated with all Nigerians as they celebrate the beginning of another year. 
In a special letter to the entire citizenry on Wednesday, January 1, 2020, he noted with satisfaction the agricultural transformation the nation has witnessed under his leadership. 
He said: “As we have sat down to celebrate with friends and family over this holiday season, for the first time in a generation our food plates have not all been filled with imports of products we know can easily be produced here at home. 
The revolution in agriculture is already a reality in all corners of the country. 
New agreements with Morocco, Russia and others will help us access on attractive terms the inputs we need to accelerate the transformation in farming that is taking place. 
The president also said: “Already, we are making key infrastructure investments to enhance our ease of doing business. 
On transportation, we are making significant progress on key roads such as the Second Niger Bridge, Lagos – Ibadan Expressway and the Abuja – Kano highway. 
2020 will also see tangible progress on the Lagos to Kano Rail line. 
Work is going on the Apapa-Oworonshoki Express way. 
Abuja and Port Harcourt have new international airport terminals, as will Kano and Lagos in 2020. 
When completed, all these projects will positively impact business operations in the country.  
“Power has been a problem for a generation. 
We know we need to pick up the pace of progress. We have solutions to help separate parts of the value chain to work better together.  
Poverty Alleviation President Buhari restated his commitment towards lifting 100 million Nigerians out of poverty. 
 “During my Democracy Day speech on June 12, 2019, I promised to lay the enduring foundations for taking a hundred million Nigerians out of mass poverty over the next 10 years. 
We shall continue reforms in education, health care and water sanitation. 
I will continue to work with State and Local Governments to make sure that these partnerships deliver as they should. 
Workers will have a living wage and pensioners will be looked after. 
We are steadily clearing pensions and benefits arrears neglected for so long. 
--- 2020 will usher in peace, economic growth – Senate President
President of the Nigerian Senate Dr. Ahmad Lawan, believes the year 2020 will usher in robust peace and economic growth for the benefit of all Nigerians. 
In his New Year message, Dr. Lawan congratulated Nigerians on witnessing the end of 2019 and the beginning of the year 2020. 
He hailed the resilience of Nigerians in their commitment to the unity and prosperity of the country and support for the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. 
The Senate President assured Nigerians that National Assembly will continue to do its best to make things better for the people through enactment of people-oriented legislations. 
Senator Lawan said the National Assembly will endeavour to sustain the harmonious working relationship with other arms of government for the smooth administration of the country and benefit of the people. 
The President of the Senate wished every Nigerian at home and abroad a happy and prosperous 2020. 
--- New Year: Speaker felicitates with Nigerians, advocates unity
The Speaker of the Nigerian House of Representatives Mr. Femi Gbajabiamila has felicitated with Nigerians for marking the beginning of the New Year, 2020. 
Mr. Gbajabiamila who noted that 2019 was remarkable in Nigeria’s history having witnessed the general elections peacefully, believes that 2020 would be better for the citizens. 
The Speaker in his New Year message through his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, said God has been faithful to Nigerians in the outgoing year and called for more unity of purpose among the citizens. 
We cannot relent in our prayers for continuous peaceful coexistence among us. Let this 2020 be a year of more prospects for the citizens. 
As an optimist, I have a strong belief that the year 2020 will be better for the country in all ramifications.
While wishing Nigerians a prosperous New Year, Speaker Gbajabiamila pledged that the House will continue to provide legislations and legislative support for the welfare of citizens. 
--- Benue Governor signs 2020 budget
Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue has signed the state’s N189.43 billion 2020 budget into law.
Ortom while signing the budget 2020 tagged “Advancement, Growth and Development” on Monday in Makurdi, pledged that the government would strive to implement the fiscal policy. 
Ortom had on Nov. 12, 2019, presented the 2020 budget estimates to the state House of Assembly for approval. 
According to him, the 2020 budget will promote education, healthcare delivery and other infrastructures for growth and development of the people. 
--- Osun Governor signs 2020 appropriation bill into law
Governor Gboyega Oyetola of Osun, on Monday, signed the 2020 budget of N119.5 billion into law, promising that the budget would be fully implemented. 
The governor signed the budget in his office in Osogbo shortly after it was formally presented to him by the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Mr Timothy Owoeye. 
The appropriation bill was passed into law by the Assembly on Dec. 24. 
Oyetola, who described the size of the budget as the most realistic, said the government would stop at nothing to ensure its full implementation. 
The governor, who promised to continue to do things that would make life more meaningful, worthwhile and abundant for the people of the state, assured them of better days in 2020 and beyond. 
He said that the state would do everything possible to bring about the desired development across all the sectors, as captured by the budget. 
--- Nigerian Government pays for January 2020 School Feeding Programme
The Nigerian Government has proactively paid suppliers of foodstuff and cooks under the Home Grown School Feeding Programme for January 2020 to ensure that feeding the 9.9 million pupils in the participating States and the FCT starts immediately schools resume in the next two weeks. 
The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouq who announced this in Abuja, explained that the payment covered the cost of feeding pupils in the 33 participating states. 
The Minister disclosed that the funds were released in December to give the suppliers and cooks adequate time to procure and stock foodstuff to ensure that pupils eat their meals timely. 
Nutritional Quality The Minister warned that the Government would not accept any drop in the nutritional quality of the meals given to the children. 
--- Nigerian President presides over security briefing
Nigerian President, Muhammadu Buhari is currently presiding over a security briefing with Service Chiefs at the Presidential Villa in Abuja. 
--- Youth Council declares 3-day fasting for Nigeria’s unity
The National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN) has declared a three-day fasting and prayer for the unity, peace and progress of Nigeria. 
A statement signed by the NYCN National President, Mr Solomon Adodo, in Abuja said that the prayer session would hold from Jan. 1 to Jan. 3, 2020. 
Adodo urged youths well meaning Nigerians and religious leaders to participate in the three-day exercise. 
He also advised them to turn away from all misdeeds and truly seek God’s face. 
“We strongly believe that Nigeria’s problems can be addressed if we sincerely seek the help of God, while assiduously working to address same. 
According to him, while Christians are expected to gather in their respective churches during the fasting and prayer period, Muslims will meet at mosques within their areas to pray together and break their fast. 
--- Clamp down on rebels and terrorists in Nigeria: Tukur Buratai
The Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, has charged troops of Operation Lafiya Dole (OPLD) deployed at Madagali in Adamawa not to give terrorists any breathing space. 
Buratai, while addressing the troops during a visit on Sunday, urged them to maintain the current tempo of onslaught against the insurgents. 
Buratai said that government would provide the needed supports to enable them prosecute the war against insurgency and other criminal activities in the country. 
He commended the troops for their gallantry in dealing with the boko haram and Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) terrorists in the region. 
“I am glad to be here with you because this is one of the areas that have been quite strategic in the operation of Operation Lafiya Dole (OPLD). 
“You have done great and I want to commend you for standing firm against all the criminals whatever name they called themselves whether Boko Haram, ISWAP or bandits. 
“Do not give them any breathing space. 
That means you must go out at all times, day and night, whether rain or sun shine and make sure you deal with them. 
--- I promises nonpartisan leadership: Ahmed Lawan.
The President of the Senate, Dr Ahmed Lawan, has pledged to run non-partisan leadership in the National Assembly. 
Lawan stated this on Saturday in Damaturu at the ‘Grand Reception’ ceremony to honour him and Minister of State for Works and Housing, Mr Abubakar Aliyu. 
Lawan also said “I can take it upon myself to run a non-partisan Senate, where party does not determine what we do. 
What we do could be determined by the interest of Nigeria. 
“Every Nigerian, regardless of his political party, wants to see an economy that works and also wants to live in peace,” he said. 
Lawan appealed for the support of Nigerians to the lawmakers to enable them achieve success. 
Lawan commended his colleagues for their cooperation and being focused in discharging their duties. 
Harmonious Relationship Earlier in his speech, Gov. Maimala Buni of Yobe, commended Lawan for creating harmonious relationship between the legislative and executive arms of government. 
--- Adamawa Governor commends army for restoring peace
Governor Ahmadu Fintiri of Adamawa State has commended the Nigerian Army for tackling the activities of Boko Haram terrorists in the north east and restoration of peace in Adamawa state. 
Fintiri, who was represented by his deputy, Chief Seth Crowther, gave the commendation during the inauguration of multi-million Naira projects in Gibson Jalo Cantonment on Saturday in Yola. 
He said that concerted efforts had been made to review and improve the security structure of the state through the provision of vehicles, motorcycles, kits as well as other administrative and logistic supports to ensure effective performance by the personnel. 
The Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, said that the projects were part of efforts aimed at ensuring the welfare of officers and soldiers of Nigerian Army as well as their families. 
--- Sokoto Governor signs 2020 Budget of N202.4bn
The Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, has signed the 2020 appropriation of N202.4 billion as passed by the State House of Assembly into law. 
Appending his signature to the document, Governor Tambuwal gave kudos to the assembly members, majority of whom belong to the opposition political party- All Progressive Congress (APC), for their patriotism and unflinching commitment to the collective good of the people of the state. 
“The assembly despite being controlled by the APC which is in the majority has rallied round the government and supported it in the interest of serving the people of the state,” the Governor said. 
Financial Constraints Presenting the budget bill to the Governor at the council chamber of Government House, Sokoto, the Speaker of the Sokoto State House of Assembly, (SOHA), Mr Aminu Muhammad Achida, noted that the Assembly was aware of the achievements of the administration despite financial constraints. 
--- Don’t let terrorists divide the country – President Buhari
President Muhammadu Buhari has appealed to Nigerians not to let terrorists divide the country along religious lines. 
President Buhari said: “I am profoundly saddened and shocked by the death of innocent hostages in the hands of remorseless, godless, callous gangs of mass murderers that have given Islam a bad name through their atrocities 
“We should, under no circumstance, let the terrorists divide us by turning Christians against Muslims because these barbaric killers don’t represent Islam and millions of other law-abiding Muslims around the world. 
 “As a President, the collective security of all Nigerians is my major preoccupation and the death of an innocent Christian or Muslim distresses me.’’ 
The President said the terrorists have no clearly defined agenda except the pursuit of evil through indiscriminate murder of innocent people, contrary to the teachings of Islam, which prohibits massacre. 
--- Nigeria Inaugurates Ministerial Taskforce on power
A Ministerial Taskforce on Power has been inaugurated in Nigeria as a way of achieving the fight for increased and sustainable power supply in the country. 
The Minister of Power, Sale Mamman who inaugurated the Taskforce in Abuja, said the setting up of the Taskforce was as a result of the Government’s plan to accelerate the pace of reforms in the sector and increase power output and availability in the short and long term. 
Mamman pointed out that that the Ministerial Taskforce on Power would serve as an Advisory Team on Policies and Innovative Technologies. 
He explained that the Committee which has two year tenure was also saddled with the responsibility of developing, planning and driving forward the reform plan of the Nigerian Government in the power sector. 
The Chairman of the Committee, Profesor Abubakar Sani Sambo.
--- President Buhari signs 2020 Budget
Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday signed the 2020 Appropriation Bill of N10.594 trillion into law. 
The National Assembly had, on December 5, passed the 2020 Appropriation Bill into law, authorizing the federal government to spend over N10.594 trillion for next year. 
This followed President Buhari’s presentation of the 2020 Budget estimates N10.33 trillion to a joint session of the National Assembly on October 8, 2019. 
The passage of the budget and its signing within 2019 has returned Nigeria to the January to December Budget Cycle. 
Speaking at the brief ceremony, the Speaker of the House of Representatives noted that there was an increase of N263.95 billion over the proposal he submitted to the legislature. 
--- Senate reaffirms commitment to poverty alleviation
Nigerian Senate has reaffirmed its commitment to fighting poverty to ensure a better living standard for the citizenry. 
President of the Senate Dr. Ahmad Lawan gave this latest assurance at a news briefing held on Monday in Abuja. 
Lawal explained that the 9th Senate would enhance legislation to tackle challenges of poverty, disease, insecurity, corruption among others, which he described as the common enemies of the country. 
He further explained that the Senate gave expeditious passage to the 2020 budget in order to return the nation’s budget circle to the desirable January and December period for adequate planning and implementation. 
Senator Lawan gave assurance to Nigerians that the shortcomings identified in the privatisation of the nation’s assets such as in the power sector, would be adequately addressed for maximum benefit. 
The president of the senate appealed to newsmen for balanced and more patriotic reportage that could fast track national development. 
The senate minority Leader, Senator Eyinanya Abaribe said the Senate would not relent in ensuring robust debate on issues of national interest. 
The present Senate would not be divided along party lines, adding that they would ensure legislation to improve the life of all citizens. 
--- Boris Johnson is now the Prime Minister of UK
Nigerian President, Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated Prime Minister Boris Johnson on his resounding election victory in the United Kingdom general election. 
The President notes that Britain has been a reliable and historically unique ally of Nigeria, and has particularly supported this administration’s efforts at improving security and recovering stolen assets held in the UK. 
President Buhari looks forward to continue working with the Prime Minister to forge a stronger Nigeria-UK relationship, especially in the area of trade and economic partnerships which greatly benefits the citizens of both countries. 
--- Nigeria to stop importation of Petrol by 2023
The Nigerian Government has said it will stop the importation of petrol into the country by 2023. 
The Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mele Kyari made this known during the signing ceremony of the Condensate refinery strategy programme Front End Engineering Design. 
The strategy is expected to eliminate the importation of petroleum products importation in Nigeria. 
In 2017, the Federal Government planned to stop the importation of fuel by 2019 with the approval of a new National Oil Policy by the Federal Executive Council.
--- President Buhari returns home after peace summit in Egypt
President Muhammadu Buhari has return to Abuja after participating in the Forum for Peace and Development in Africa, which took place in Egypt December 11 and 12. 
  The President’s aircraft touched down at the Presidential wing of the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, at about 13.30 GMT. 
He was received by the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Mohammed Bello and security chiefs among others. 
The Forum, which was the first of its kind platform in Africa was aimed at addressing the interconnections between peace and development in Africa while promoting Africa-led solutions through strengthening policies and practices. 
While in Egypt, the President held bilateral talks with his Egyptian counterpart Abdelfattah el-Sisi where both leaders pledged to collaborate to eradicate the menace of terrorism in parts of Africa. 
The president’s entourage included the Minister of Defence, Gen. Bashir Magashi (Rtd); Minister of State, Foreign Affairs, Amb. Zubairu Dada; National Security Adviser, Maj.-Gen. Babagana Monguno (Rtd); and the Director-General, National Intelligence Agency, Amb. Ahmed Abubakar.
--- Attorney General orders DSS off Sowore’s case
The Attorney General of the Federation, Justice Abubakar Malami has ordered the Department of State Services (DSS) to hands off the trial of Omoyele Sowore. 
--- Court affirms Magu as EFCC Chair
Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu of the Federal High Court, Abuja has dismissed the suits challenging the stay of Ibrahim Mustapha Magu as Acting Chairman of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission EFCC. 
The suits were contesting the legality of Magu’s position as EFCC acting Chairman after the refusal of the 8th Senate under the leadership of Bukola Saraki to confirm him as substantive chair of the premier anti-graft agency. 
But in her judgment, Justice Ojukwu dismissed the suits in their entirety. 
The trial judge noted that the lacuna in the law literally handed President Muhammadu Buhari, the “proverbial yam and the knife to do as he pleases, being that there is no specific time stipulated for acting capacity.” 
Additionally, the judge noted that despite the fact that plaintiff is a legal practitioner and a Nigerian, he lacked the locus standi to challenge Magu’s stay in office as the acting chairman of EFCC.
--- Without National identity registration platform, there is no chance to write Jamb exam
The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board, JAMB has deployed a total number of 1800 members of staff to test run the new registration process under the joint platform of JAMB and the National Identity Management Commission, using the National Identification Number, NIN. 
The board said the members of staff were deployed across Nigeria to for trial registration, following its determination to have a seamless registration exercise for candidates desirous of sitting for the 2020 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination. 
The members of staff deployed would be involved in assessing the workability of the new registration regime and identify the success rate and possible challenges so as to improve on them for a hitch free exercise. 
--- Taraba State House of Assembly speaker resigns
The Speaker, Taraba State House of Assembly, Mr Abel Peter Diah, on Sunday evening resigned amidst alleged plots by the state governor, Darius Ishaku to impeach him and other principal officers of the House. 
In a phone call on Sunday evening, Diah said that he had decided to “resign as the speaker of the Taraba State House of Assembly for personal reasons.” 
Diah appreciated the members for giving him the chance to serve them in the capacity and urged to continue to work for the interest of Taraba State rather than personal reasons. 
Tension had continued to mount over the weekend with alleged plans by Governor Darius Ishaku to mobilise and impeach the speaker following alleged moves by the House to impeach the governor a few weeks ago. 
--- Come and enter free train ride on Lagos-Ibadan rail
Nigerian Government has commenced free train ride on Lagos-Ibadan standard guage rail line. 
This followed the test-run from Iju in Lagos to Ibadan where the standard gauge rail line terminates. 
Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi who flagged off the train service. 
Amaechi said the the free ride would last till March 2020. 
Amaechi explained that the free train ride would commence from Iju to Ibaban by 2nd to 19th December, 2019 while from Agege to Ibadan would start from 21st. 
--- Dino Melaye has lost the Kogi West Senatorial District Election
The candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Smart Adeyemi, has won the Kogi West senatorial district election. 
The Returning Officer of the election, Professor Olajide Lawal, announced this on Saturday at the collation centre in Kogi State. 
According to him, Senator Adeyemi polled a total of 88,373 votes to beat Senator Dino Melaye of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) who scored 62,133 votes. 
Ambassador Rufus Aiyenigba of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) came third in the poll with 659 votes and was trailed by John Olabode and Adeyemi Taiwo of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) and Nigeria Elements Progressive Party (NEPP who) garnered 262 and 119 votes respectively. 
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared the APC candidate Smart Adeyemi,  as the winner of the keenly contested election two weeks after the people of the senatorial district went to the poll.
--- ASUU will soon embark on strike 
The Nigerian House of Representatives is to intervene in the conflict between government and Academic Staff Union of Universities, ASUU, on the IPPIS issue. 
In a motion of urgent public importance on the urgent need for the House to intervene in the crisis, Mr. Abbas Tajuddeen from Kaduna State. 
Tajuddeen described the IPPIS as a good policy that recorded great success. 
The lawmaker, stated that if the government refused to back down on the ASUU’s demands, the union may embark on another strike which would jeopardize the current peace being enjoyed by universities in the country. 
The Federal Government had said it had received the nominal roll of about 41 universities as part of moves to capture university workers, despite ASUU’s opposition.
--- President Buhari condemns violence in Cross River State
Nigeria’s President, Muhammadu Buhari has strongly condemned the on-going violence in the Boki Local Government Area of Cross River State, which has in the past 24 hours led to a yet to be ascertained number of deaths and arson attacks. 
In a statement he issued on Wednesday night, Senior Special Assistant to tge President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu said: 
“So far, there have been claims and counter claims as who restarted the killings and arson between neighbouring Nsadop and the Boje communities. 
While the origin of the mayhem is still unclear. 
President Buhari notes that no dispute or grievance is worth the violent snatching away of another person’s life. 
Nigerians must learn to live peacefully with each other and seek less brutish means of resolving conflicts. 
Our country does not need another war. 
“President Buhari understands that our security agencies are already intervening to bring an end to the crisis. 
He also makes an urgent call on the Cross River State government and the Boki local government authorities to immediately look into the crisis and take action to ensure that this unfortunate situation is resolved.”
--- Nigeria condoles with Kenya and DR Congo over natural disasters
The Nigeria leader, Predsident Muhammadu Buhari expressed sadness over the loss of lives, the economic and social disruptions caused by these natural disasters in DR Congo.  
Buhari noted that “emergency management response is one of Africa’s biggest challenges of development, and we should work together to find a common strategy to minimise the human and economic impacts of these catastrophes.” 
The President told the leaders of Kenya and the Democratic Republic of Congo that the hearts and prayers of all Nigerians are with those affected by the natural disaster.
--- President Buhari pledges to punish killers of Achejuh Abuh
Madam Achejuh Abuh, Woman Leader of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Wada/Aro campaign council has been murdered in the just concluded gubernatorial election in Kogi State.
--- Repair the Universal Healthcare system in the country: Buhari
President Muhammadu Buhari has pledged that his administration would ensure that all Nigerians have access to affordable, efficient and equitable healthcare services without the risk of impoverishment. 
Receiving the report on ‘‘Funding Universal Healthcare Delivery in Nigeria’’ by the Senior Executive Course 41 of the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS), Kuru, President Buhari directed relevant agencies of government to review the submission and ensure its integration into ongoing policies and programmes. 
The President recalled that in late 2018 he had approved the study theme for the 2019 Senior Executive Course because of his desire to address the challenges in the country’s health delivery system and improve the wellbeing of the citizens. 
”I assure you that the Ministry of Health and all relevant agencies will be directed to review this submission and ensure its integration into our ongoing policies and programmes,” the President said. 
--- Senate passes Tax system reforms Bill
The Senate has passed the Finance Bill, 2019, which seeks an amendment to Nigeria’s tax laws. 
Presenting the report, Chairman of the Committee, Senator Olamilekan Adeola, said the Bill specifically seeks to amend tax provisions and make them more responsive to the tax policies of the Nigerian Government, among other things. 
In his concluding remarks after the clause-by-clause consideration, the Senate Presiden, Dr. Ahmad Lawan, said the bill’s passage by the Senate was intended “to ensure that we (National Assembly) streamline the tax system in Nigeria and get revenue for government to provide services and infrastructure to the citizens of this country.” 
--- Information Minister has expressed deep shock and sadness over the death of Alex Akinyele 
Nigeria’s Minister of Information and Culture, Mr. Lai Mohammed, has expressed deep shock and sadness over the death of a former Minister of Information, Chief Alex Akinyele. 
In a statement issued in Abuja on Friday, Mohammed called the death of Chief Akinyele a monumental loss to his family, the people of Ondo State and Nigeria in general. 
The Minister described the late Chief Akinyele as an astute administrator and a highly-respected public relations practitioner. 
He said Chief Akinyele’s tenure as Minister of Information, and later as the Chairman of the defunct National Sports Commission.
He prayed to God for the repose of Chief Akinyele’s soul.
--- Nigeria seeks funds from US for infrastructure development
President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed the willingness of the Nigerian government to mobilise additional capital from development finance institutions for the upgrade of critical infrastructure in the country. 
President Buhari met the U.S Treasury Secretary, Steven Mnuchin in Riyadh and they had positive discussions on investments in Nigeria. 
The organization is the United States International Development Finance Corporation (USIDFC), the corporation provides $60 billion for investments in developing nations. 
--- Mobolaji Johnson is dead
Lagos State Governor Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has expressed sadness over the death of the first Military Governor of the State, Brigadier-General Mobolaji Johnson. 
Sanwo-Olu described the late General Johnson as a complete gentleman and officer, a dedicated ‘Lagosians’.  
Late General Johnson contributed immensely to the development of Lagos State in particular and the nation in general. 
Governor Sanwo-Olu recalled General Johnson’s time as the first Military Governor of Lagos State from May 1967 to July 1975, when the late administrator brought visible infrastructural development to the State. 
The Governor reminded ‘Lagosians’ that the best way to immortalise the deceased is to ensure that good governance spreads to every facet of the society. 
Mobolaji Johnson died at 83 in Lagos after a brief illness. 
--- Nigeria targets 100m citizens in primary healthcare in 10 years
Nigeria is working to reach 100million citizens through at least 10,000 revitalized Primary Healthcare Centres, PHCs, through a phased approach in the next 10 years. 
This was contained in a presentation made by the Federal Ministry of Health on Tuesday at the meeting of the National Economic Council, NEC, presided over by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. 
Governor of Anambra, Willy Obiano, who briefed State House correspondents after the meeting, said that “despite the progress, there is still work to be done to sustain the current polio gains and stop the transmission of Circulating Vaccine Derived Polio Viruses.” 
Requests to NEC Obiano said that the ministry requested the NEC to intervene to ensure that Nigeria sustains the achievements it has made in healthcare provision. 
--- Golden Eaglets Victory: President Buhari tasks Nigerians on resilience
President Muhammadu Buhari has applauded the performance of the Golden Eaglets on Tuesday in their second game at the ongoing FIFA Under 17 World Cup in Brazil, which saw them winning 3-2 after they had trailed Ecuador by 1-2, fifteen minutes to the end of the match. 
He therefore, recommended the can-do spirit displayed by the young boys to Nigerians, urging them to display such in all areas of endeavour, and in national development. 
--- Augustina Okechukwu, laid to rest in Enugu
Mrs Augustina Okechukwu, wife of the Director-General of Voice of Nigeria (VON), Mr Osita Okechukwu, was on Saturday laid to rest at her country home, Eke in Udi Local Government Area of Enugu State. 
Preaching a sermon at the funeral mass at St. Paul’s Catholic Church, Eke, a cleric, Rev. Fr. Nnamdi Nwankwo, enjoined Christians to live selfless lives meant to uplift the living conditions of others around them. 
In his remarks, husband of the deceased and DG of VON, Mr Okechukwu thanked Nigerians from all walks of life for showing his family great love during the period of mourning. 
The funeral service was attended by Bishop Anaezichukwu Obodo, Auxiliary Bishop of Enugu Catholic Diocese, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr Boss Mustapha, represented by the Permanent Secretary of Ministry of Interior, Mrs Georgina Ekeoma-Nwaiwu. 
The Deputy Governor of Enugu State, Mrs Cecila Ezeilo and former Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Dubem Onyia, among other dignitaries also attended the service. 
