---Garkida attack is a sign of frustration – President Buhari
President Muhammadu Buhari has condemned the boko haram attack on Garkida in Adamawa State, Northeast Nigeria, saying the terrorists were frustrated. 
President Buhari said in a statement: “These attacks on soft targets by the terrorists are obvious signs of frustration because my administration has significantly weakened boko haram’s military capability to invade and hold Nigerian territory unchallenged.” 
He extended his sympathy to families of the victims and assured citizens that no part of Nigeria would be abandoned to their fate. 
“Our gallant forces deserve our appreciation for repelling the attackers but they must go beyond this point. 
They have our full support to go after the terrorists and have them pay a huge price. 
I want to assure the country that terrorists will continue to face the combined power of our military until they give up their mistaken ways. 
President Buhari said since the coming of his administration, boko haram’s ability to invade and occupy Nigerian territories, let alone be able to hoist their flags, had been frustrated. 
---Army thwarts Boko Haram attack in Adamawa
Army troops of 232 Battalion of 23 Armoured Brigade under Operation LAFIYA DOLE deployed in Garkida, Gombi LGA of Adamawa State thwarted a planned attack by Boko haram terrorists. 
According to a statement by the Assistant Director Army Public Relations 23 Brigade Yola, Major Haruna Mohammed Sani, the terrorists besieged the town in about 7 Gun Trucks and a number of motorcycles setting some buildings ablaze and causing unrest within the community. 
“The gallant troops mobilised and intercepted the criminals’ advance and engaged the marauding criminals unleashing high volume of fire leading to the elimination of several of the criminals while others withdrew in disarray, many of them with gunshot wounds as evident in the trails of blood along their withdrawal route” Major Sani explained. 
“Regrettably, one gallant soldier paid the supreme price while another soldier was wounded in action. The wounded in action soldier has since been evacuated to a military medical facility.
Consequently, following the successful repelling of the criminals, on the 22nd February 2020, the Commander 23 Armoured Brigade, Brigadier General Sani Gambo Mohammed visited the troops in Garkida. 
At the end of his tour, he congratulated the troops for their doggedness, vigilance and uncommon fighting spirit that led to the victory against the enemy. 
He however admonished them to be more vigilant as the criminal elements may plan a reprisal attack due to the casualties they suffered. 
Additionally, the Brigade Commander also solicited the citizens’ continuous cooperation in reporting to security agencies any suspicious persons or movement within and adjourning communities. 
He further reassured the good people of Garkida and indeed Adamawa State of the Brigade’s total commitment to protecting lives and properties within its Area of Responsibility.
---President Buhari thanks ‘Doctors Without Borders’ for supporting Nigeria
President Muhammadu Buhari says the sacrifices of Medecins Sans Frontieres (Doctors Without Borders) in conflict areas in Nigeria are well appreciated. 
Receiving Dr. Christos Christou, International President of the organization at State House, Abuja, on Friday, the President said the sacrifices as individuals and as a group was quite enormous, particularly on a non-profit basis. 
Commenting specifically on the situation in the North-East, President Buhari said despite criticisms, the government has made substantial progress. 
“We know the pathetic situation of children not knowing where their parents are, or the communities they come from, and that was why we established the new Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management, and Social Development. 
This is to harness and channel resources to such deprived people.
The President promised that respite and succor would come to all the troubled areas, adding that many prominent and well-to-do organizations were also involved, along with international agencies. 
---Nigeria’s Information Minister clears air on $500m China Loan
Nigeria’s Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed has revealed that the 500 million dollar loan being sought from China is not for the Nigeria Television Authority (NTA) alone. 
The Country’s Information and Culture Minister made the clarification in Abuja, Nigeria’s capital, while briefing journalists on the controversies surrounding the proposed loan for the projects. 
Mohammed said the loan was for three major projects contrary to the hysteria created over it in a section of the media. 
He said it was reported in some sections of the media while defending the loan before the National Assembly that the loan was for the upgrades of facilities to enable NTA compete with the likes of America’s Cable Network News, CNN. 
The minister said the loan would be used to construct a headquarters complex and transmission network for Integrated Television Services (ITS), the Federal Government-owned signal distributor and a major component of the country’s Digital Switchover (DSO) 
He said the fund would also be used to build an ultra-modern Media City in Ikorodu, Lagos State, to include Indoor/Outdoor shooting area, Animation Production Facility and Digital Media Training Centre. 
Mohammed also hinted that other facilities in the city would include World Class Cinema, Four-Star Hotel, an Amusement Park and Amphi-theatre. 
The minister further said the loan would also be used for acquisition of digital movie production equipment for rental as well as power system 
He disclosed that the Media City Training Academy was only the second of its type in Africa and the first is in Egypt.
The minister also disclosed that the loan would be used for digitization of all NTA Stations at the Headquarters, 12 zonal stations, the 36 States and FCT as well as 78 community stations.
---President Buhari reassures Plateau State on peace, prosperity
President Muhammadu Buhari has reassured Plateau State government that the Federal Government will continue to support its efforts towards promoting a peaceful, prosperous and tolerant society. 
Receiving Governor Simon Lalong and other stakeholders from Plateau State on Thursday, President Buhari appealed to residents and indigenes of the State to support the Governor’s development agenda. 
‘‘It is, therefore, our collective duty to ensure these potentials are fully harnessed by providing the right policy support,’’ the President said. 
President Buhari told the delegation he was very pleased with the progress made on security, provision of social services and infrastructure development under the leadership of the present Governor. 
The delegation comprised of the State Deputy Governor, Prof. Sonni Tyoden as well as political appointees and some illustrious sons and daughters of Plateau State. 
---Senate probes GSM operators over drop calls
A Senate panel on Wednesday held a public hearing to investigate telecommunications network operators in the country over increasing rate of drop calls.
According to the chairman of the Senate Committee on Communications, Senator Oluremi Tinubu, the session was specifically “on the increasing rate of drop calls and other unwholesome practices by telecommunications network operators in Nigeria that have robbed Nigerians of their hard earned billions of naira.”
What MTN does in Nigeria, MTN doesn’t do that in South Africa. 
I think the committee should insist on what happens to all the money people in this country paid for no service. 
Other countries give money back.
But here you denied us and you don’t give one Kobo.
“And the kind of market that we have in Nigeria, is such that you don’t have this market anywhere in the world.
When a Nigerian will have three lines, yet we don’t get the service that we paid for.
The Senate President also accused the regulatory authority, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) of not doing enough to check the sharp practices by the Service Providers.
---Coronavirus: Nigerian Government reiterates preparedness
The Nigerian Government has said that it has further enhanced its preparedness level to contain the coronavirus also known as COVID-19 epidemic in case of any suspicious case in the country. 
Briefing Journalists in Abuja on Tuesday, after an inspection tour of the screening facility, the country’s Information and Culture Minister Mr. Lai Mohammed alongside his counterparts from other ministries stated that government was ready to prevent Corona spread. 
The Minister said that relevant ministries and agencies are working in synergy to achieve to tackle the virus should it come into the country. 
He said that the team work and professionalism exhibited by the Task Force set up by the government has given the country a clean bill of health so far but this effort must be sustained. 
Four Ministers the Minister of Aviation, Minister of State for Health, Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, all part of the Inter-Ministerial committee were present at the Inspection tour at the Abuja International Airport. 
According to Lai Mohammed, all Media agencies of the Federal Ministry of Information, like the Nigerian Television Authority, Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria, News Agency of Nigeria, Voice of Nigeria and the National Orientation Agency, are using their platforms to sensitise and enlighten the public on Coronavirus. 
Adding that all sensitisation programmes are also being translated to the major indigenous languages.
Nigeria, Iran to strengthen parliamentary ties
The Nigerian House of Representatives has reiterated its commitment to strengthening relationship with the parliament of the Islamic Republic of Iran. 
The Speaker of the House Mr. Femi Gbajabiamila while receiving the Iranian Ambassador to Nigeria, Mr. Morteza Rahimi Zarchi, in Abuja, said a robust parliamentary relationship between the two countries would go a long way in boosting the relationship between the two countries. 
“We’re always delighted when we receive eminent visitors from other countries. We’re always excited because it boosts the relationships between the two countries. I believe that diplomacy can be achieved through parliament. 
We look forward to having a good relationship between your parliament and our parliament,” Speaker Gbajabiamila said. 
Earlier, Mr. Zarchi said besides the parliamentary friendship, it was also imperative for the two countries to have stronger economic and cultural ties. 
He said Iran has a big role to play in the fight against terrorism, especially in its region, noting that the country attaches importance to the issue. 
---Senate confirms new Aviation Authority Head
Nigerian Senate on Tuesday confirmed the nomination of Captain Musa Shuaibu Nuhu as Director-General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority, NCAA. 
Nuhu’s confirmation was sequel to the consideration of the report on the screening of the nominee by the Senate Committee on Aviation. 
Chairman of the Committee, Senator Smart Adeyemi said that the “nominee has requisite experience and possesses relevant academic and professional qualifications.”  
The Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, on January 28, 2020, read a request on the floor from President Muhammadu Buhari for the confirmation of Captain Musa Shuaibu Nuhu as Director-General for the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA). 
Captain Musa Shuaibu Nuhu was a reputable airline Pilot and Aviation Safety Expert with well over 30 years.
---President of the Senate, Dr. Ahmad Lawan has declared open a public hearing on sexual harrassment. 
Senator Lawan said that sexual harassment and intimidation was not just a sexual offence but a criminal offence. 
He said that there was need for stakeholders to think upon new resolutions and sanctions to check the menace if the extant laws were not tight enough. 
---Presidency urges Nigerians to beware of fake news peddlers
The Presidency has debunked reports making the round that President Muhammadu Buhari would be embarking on a lengthy trip abroad from Wednesday February 19 to 4th April. 
Addressing State House Correspondents, on Monday, Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina said the report, which emanated on the social media on Sunday was full of falsehood orchestrated by mischief makers. 
He said: “Purveyors of fake and concocted Information are currently on overdrive, and Nigerians are urged to be careful what they consume as news, and also share with others, particularly from the social media. 
The Presidential spokesperson further said the mischief makers are not targeting only the President for ridicule, but members of his family and cabinet. 
“Transportation Minister, Rotimi Amaechi was said to have been attacked at Rigasa in Kaduna State, he has denied it, the Air Force was alleged to have killed 250 insurgents, they have denied it, just last week, an online platform published the falsehood that Zahra, the daughter of President Muhammadu Buhari, got employment through the back door as a Deputy Manager at the Petroleum Products Pricing and Regulatory Agency PPPRA, there is no truth to it. 
---Borno Governor visits Niger Republic to discuss repatriation modalities
The Borno State Governor, Professor Babagana Umara-Zulum has visited Diffa, Niger Republic, with the aim of putting modalities in place towards the safe and dignified repatriation of the refugees to resettlement communities in Borno State. 
During the visit, the Governor met about 120 thousand refugees, who mostly hailed from local government areas in the northern part of Borno state. 
The refugees, made up of men, women and children, fled their homes, in hundreds of communities attacked by Boko Haram insurgents since 2014. 
It was reported that majority of the refugees trekked distances to enter the neighbouring country in search of safety. 
The host Governor of Diffa, Isa Lameen, led Governor Zulum during the visit, accompanied by the Speaker, Borno State Assembly, Abdulkarim Lawan, who is from the northern part of Borno State. 
While addressing top officials, Professor Zulum expressed his gratitude to the government of Diffa province, the Federal Government of Niger and the host communities in the country for being hospitable to the Borno citizens. 
Katsina State Governor, Aminu Masari has cautioned communities in the state against taking the law into their hands, following insecurity challenges in the state. 
Masari gave the advice in Malumfashi on Sunday during the distribution of empowerment materials donated by Sen. Bello Mandiya to some constituents in Funtua Senatorial District. 
He said that the killing of 30 people in Tsanwa and Dankar villages of Batsari Local Governmental of the state was a reprisal by armed bandits from Zamfara forest. 
The governor appealed to all communities not to resort to self-help, but report suspicious persons to relevant authorities for prompt action. 
Masari urged people of the state to be calm, and assured them that the government and security operatives were on top of the situation. 
He commiserated with the people in the two villages and the entire state over the incident. 
It would be recalled that bandits believed to be from Zamfara invaded Tsanwa and Dankar villages on Friday and killed 30 people mostly women and children before setting their homes ablaze. 
The state police command said it has arrested one of the bandits. 
---Minister calls for calm in Bayelsa
The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, has urged the people of Bayelsa to shun all act of violence and lawlessness. 
Sylva made this known in a statement he signed and released in Abuja on Sunday. 
“I want to use this moment to call on all the people of our dear state Bayelsa to kindly shun all acts of violence and lawlessness. 
“Also of great importance to me is to extend my profound apology to our President, Muhammadu Buhari, over the avoidable disruption to his busy schedule which was caused by the events of the moment. 
“I am aware that Mr President and his wife Aisha Buhari had concluded arrangements to travel to Bayelsa to witness the inauguration of the APC Governorship candidate as Governor of Bayelsa State. 
President Buhari salutes Kaduna Governor at 60
Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari has joined Kaduna State Executive Council and indigenes to celebrate the State Governor, Nasir el-Rufai, who will turn 60 on Sunday. 
In a message, President Buhari congratulated the governor for his distinguished service to the nation. 
He also noted that the Governor’s entry into public service was truly accidental, but the contributions he has made are deliberate, well thought out and long lasting. 
Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo has expressed confidence in the ability and competence of Nigerian professionals to solve the nation’s problems without recourse to foreign aid. 
Professor Osinbajo insisted that, given the impressive performance and achievements recorded by Nigerians across diverse fields, at home and abroad, it is evident that many of the country’s problems can be solved by Nigerians themselves. 
Professor Osinbajo said this when he received a delegation from the West African College of Surgeons (WACS), in his office on Friday. 
The College formed by a group of young Nigerian surgeons, 60 years ago predated the Economic Community of West African States.
The delegation led by Professor Ibrahim Yakasai, was at the Aso Rock Presidential Villa to brief the Vice President on the activities of the College including its planned 60th Annual General Meeting and Scientific Conference scheduled for Abuja. 
Professor Yakasai is the Local Organising Committee chairman.
Achievements The immediate past President of the College, Professor King-David Yawe highlighted some of the achievements of WACS especially with regards to free medical outreaches to several Nigerian communities. 
---Nigeria adopts multi-prong strategy for road maintenance
Nigeria’s Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, has affirmed the adoption of a multi-prong strategy for road maintenance across the country to ensure accessibility all year round. 
The Minister made this known at Ugep, the largest village in Africa, Yakurr local government area, during the inspection of critical economic roads within Cross River State. 
Fashola, who was accompanied by key officials of his ministry, noted that road maintenance especially during the rainy season, required the collective responsibility of everyone. 
“We stopped at the Calabar-Itu road, which was a major problem during the raining season, just like the Calabar-Ikom-Ogoja road. 
It requires us to change our strategy and this year, for roads like Numanchan leading to Taraba, Calabar-Itu, Abeokuta to Otta-Lagos – all of those roads where trucks get stuck during the rains – we need a strategy to ensure that our contractors are mindful of the commuters, while the construction is ongoing.
Project Funding The Managing Director of SEMATECH, Isioma Eziashi attributed the delay in completing the project on time to lack of available funds despite the firms readiness to deliver the project as stipulated on the timeline. 
---The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has presented Certificate of Return to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)’s candidate, Douye  Diri, as winner of the Bayelsa 2019 governorship election, in compliance with the Supreme Court judgment. 
Diri was presented the certificate of return by National Commissioner in charge of South/South, Mrs May Agbamuche-Mbu, on Friday at INEC headquarters in Abuja. 
Earlier, INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, had declared Diri winner of the state governorship election. 
Receiving the certificate, Diri commended INEC and the judiciary for being the “last hope of the common man.” 
“We pray and hope that God will heal our land, Bayelsa, and Nigeria. God has taken us through wide road and the road has taught us reconciliation, lessons” Diri said. 
The Supreme Court on Thursday sacked David Lyon and Sen. Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo, as governor and deputy governor-elect in the Nov. 16, 2019 Bayelsa governorship election. 
