Workers’ Day Celebration: House Speaker tasks Nigerian workers on productivity
The Speaker of the Nigerian House of Representatives Mr Femi Gbajabiamila has congratulated the Nigerian workers for marking this year’s International Workers’ Day. 
Mr Gbajabiamila said although the day is being marked quietly across the globe as a result of the lockdown necessitated by the COVID-19 pandemic, there is much to remember about the sacrifices made by Nigerian workers. 
In a statement marking the Workers’ Day signed by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, the Speaker commended the Nigerian workers for their commitment and dedication to work over the years, which he said has shaped the country tremendously. 
He, however, called on Nigerian workers to be more productive now and always, saying no matter what was achieved before now must be sustained and improved upon for the country to achieve more. 
“I want to salute the courage of Nigerian workers, who have over the years given their best to their work. 
Indeed Nigeria and Nigerians are proud of you. 
I urge the Nigerian workers to redouble their efforts at this time of our national development. 
They must continue to put in their best in the work that they do for the betterment of the country.” 
--- May Day: Senate President felicitates with Nigerian workers
President of the Nigerian Senate, Ahmad Lawan, has felicitated with Nigerian workers as they join their counterparts the world over to mark the Workers’ Day.  
Senator Lawan also congratulated Nigerian workers for sustaining their heroic struggle for the liberation of the country from poverty and underdevelopment even in the face of the daunting challenges at various workplaces. 
He acknowledged the role of workers as the creator of wealth in society and stressed that it is for this reason that they should be appreciated at all times. 
The best way to appreciate the enormous contributions of the Nigerian workers is to always consider their welfare as of utmost importance. 
"As a legislature, we are ever ready to work in collaboration with the organised labour Unions to rid our statute books of any anti-labour laws," Lawan said. 
The Senate President said as part of the effort of the 9th National Assembly to strengthen the economy and improve the standard of living of the people, it is determined to make the country’s financial year predictable through the timely passage of the 2020 budget. 
According to Senator Lawan, the National Assembly has in the same respect made critical amendments to some laws to ensure smooth implementation of the budget. 
He said the Legislature would continue to move relentlessly in that direction, despite the unforeseen challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. 
The Senate President noted that this year’s celebration of Workers’ Day comes at a time the entire world is facing the health emergency brought about by the Coronavirus pandemic.
"It is the resilience and never-die spirit of the Nigerian people that will boost the efforts of the government to overcome the pandemic," he stated. 
The Senate President urged the Nigerian workers, as they mark their day, to adhere strictly to all the prescribed public health protocols of social distancing, wearing of face mask, use of hand sanitizer, observance of personal hygiene, and to endeavour to stay at home and stay safe. 
--- COVID 19: another twenty four (24) people were tested positive in Nigeria.
Another twenty-four (24) people were tested positive for corona virus (COVID 19) in Nigeria this made the total of infected people to be one thousand, nine hundred and thirty-two (1932) when three hundred and nineteen (319) have been discharged, and fifty-eight (58) are dead. The Nigeria centre for disease control (NCDC) announced this on their twitter handle @NCDC.gov. 
--- COVID 19 : We have received some news about the happening in Kano – Dr. Osagie
The Minister for health in Nigeria Dr. Osagie Ehanire has said they have received some news on the happening in Kano state. 
The minister said this in a daily interview of the federal Government in charge of fighting against COVID 19 with journalist in Abuja.
He continued that they are expecting the news about the sudden death in Kano state, and this help them to take step of providing the instrument, the professionals and the training to help stop COVID- 19 in Kano state.
Dr Ehanire, now appealed health workers to follow the line of programmes to protect themselves always so that they will not be infected by COVID -19 or endanger themselves.  
--- Nigeria confirms 204 cases of COVID-19
Nigeria has recorded 204 cases of the novel Coronavirus known as COVID-19, bringing the total number of the confirmed cases to 1932. 
There are 319 Discharged and 58 Deaths. 
On its official Twitter handle @NCDCgov, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, showed the breakdown of the new cases; 
204 new cases of #COVID19 reported; 
80-Kano 45-Lagos 12-Gombe 9-Bauchi 9-Sokoto 7-Borno 7-Edo 6-Rivers 6-Ogun 4-FCT 4-Akwa Ibom 4-Bayelsa 3-Kaduna 2-Oyo 2-Delta 2-Nasarawa 1-Ondo 1-Kebbi 11:50pm 30th April- 1932 confirmed cases of #COVID19 in Nigeria  Discharged.
--- COVID-19: Ministerial Task Team on Kano submits interim report
The Ministerial Task Team on fact-finding mission to Kano has submitted an interim report to the Federal Ministry of Health, on the needs, strengths and weaknesses of the Kano response system. 
The Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire said this at the daily joint press briefing by the Presidential Task Force on Covid-19, in Abuja, Nigeria. 
He said while the Ministry awaits a full report, the interim report will be a guide in supporting Kano State COVID-19 Task force with necessary material, training and human resources. 
“They will include assembling and dispatching a technical team from FMOH and virus Infectious disease specialists from Irrua Specialist hospital to join a technical team from Lagos Ministry of Health that is already on ground in Kano at the request of the Governor of Kano State” he said. 
He said there will also be a good pool of experienced hands-on experts to support the leading role of Kano State in the response. 
“An emergency medical team from FHOH has left Abuja with ambulances, five of which were kindly donated by FRSC, on their way to Kano to provide emergency response in view of movement restrictions arising from the lockdown.” 
Dr Ehanire restated the need for health workers to stringently follow laid down standard infection prevention and control measures at all times and not to take risks. 
 “We cannot afford to lose the service of essential manpower at this time; every client should be treated with a high index of suspicion for COVID-19, but treat every client with fairness so that persons suffering from other ailments do not suffer neglect or treatment refusal.”  
“It is not ethical to turn clients away without, at least a medical advice, neither should a person in distress be refused care in emergency situation” he said. 
--- Re-opening of schools not yet in view – Minister
The Minister of State for Education, Emeka Nwajiuba says he cannot for-see or immediately tell when schools will be reopened. 
The Minister also said re-opening of schools will be in tandem with President Muhammadu Buhari’s gradual ease of the lockdown put in place to curb the spread of COVID-19. 
Nwajiuba who had earlier during the daily briefing said that the government is not ready to put the lives of children at risk, warned that no school should engage students except when a formal date of resumption is announced by the government. 
” In anyway none of these schools can function outside the society”. 
The Minister also said that all entrance examinations that had been postponed will hold when the government is satisfied that the students have understood the syllabus as planned. 
The Minister clarified that both the West African Examination Council for Senior School Students and other National Examinations including NABTEB are not cancelled but only postponed. 
He acknowledged challenges in the deployment of the e-learning policy hence the engagement of the State Universal Basic Education Boards. 
According to him,” we know some are limited by access and the access is limited by device, some can only get on the continuation of their academic program via radio, some at the television level, some are using computer online system, so we are doing this in partnership with states meaning that every gap we intend to bridge as regards the education of these children nationwide, we had to pass through every state Governor through their SUBEBS” 
“Presently we have time table for 31 states out of 36 states, which means via Radio or T.v, teaching and learning are ongoing, these are time tables that suit each state but the federal government has only provided guideline via online content” 
“Using these SUBEBs ,the same way we share their interventions with them is the same way this teaching and learning online content is been shared and the FG informed that they could use state media that is appropriate in their areas”. Nwajiuba said. 
The Minister added that the COVID 19 pandemic has helped all stakeholders to retool and has also helped everybody to get on board. 
Speaking on the Sustainability of the e-learning policy, the Minister said the government will further engage master teachers that will perfect the system that will transcend its use after the Coronavirus health challenge facing the world. 
Meanwhile the Education Secretariat of the Federal Capital Territory Administration FCTA, has issued a warning to some private Schools disseminating information to parents and students indicating the resumption of the 2019/2020 3rd term calendar online. 
The FCTA Education Secretary, Umaru Marafa said in a statement released on Tuesday that no academic activities in all Schools in any form should commence until a notice to reopen is approved and conveyed by the Secretariat” 
“The Implication of this is that when the Schools will be reopened, adequate notice of the fact that 2nd term was inconclusive will be factored into the academic calendar which will dovetail into the 3rd term accordingly. Any action taken otherwise is likely to negatively distort the academic calendar of the schools involved” Marafa said. 
School proprietors are therefore, advised to maintain the status quo and keep their schools closed and not re-open in any form while they await further directives from the FCTA.  
Violators of this directive will face the full wrath of the law. 
Marafa further disclosed that the FCTA Education Secretariat has concluded plans to introduce e-learning platforms to include lessons on radio and television channels to keep the students constructively engaged while the lockdown lasts. 
--- No private school must start work –  Minister FCT
The Minister for the Federal capital territory (FCT), Alhaji Muhammad Musa Bello has warned the proprietors of private schools in Abuja that have started informing parents and students that very soon they will start work for the third term for the present 2019/2020 academic session, to be careful so that they will not face the wrath of government law. 
Senior secretary for education in the federal capital territory, Umaru Marafa said this in a statement released on Tuesday that no academic activities in all Schools in any form should commence until a notice to reopen is approved and conveyed by the Secretariat” 
“We are appealing to private school proprietors to allow all their schools to remain closed, they must not try to open the school except there is a  notice or guideline from ministry of FCTA” 
All those that go against this rule shall face the wrath of law. 
Marafa continued that Ministry of FCTA in charge of education has planned to start teaching by using the knowledge of internet, the use of television to teach the students in the period of lockdown. 
--- FULL TEXT OF PRESIDENT MUHAMMADU BUHARI’S NATIONWIDE BROADCAST
ADDRESS BY H.E. MUHAMMADU BUHARI, PRESIDENT OF THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA ON THE CUMULATIVE LOCKDOWN ORDER OF LAGOS AND OGUN STATES AS WELL AS THE FEDERAL CAPITAL TERRITORY ON COVID- 19 PANDEMIC AT THE STATE HOUSE, ABUJA, MONDAY, 27th APRIL, 2020 
1. Fellow Nigerians 
2. I will start by commending you all for the resilience and patriotism that you have shown in our collective fight against the biggest health challenge of our generation. 
3. As at yesterday, 26th April 2020, some 3 million confirmed cases of COVID-19 have been recorded globally with about 900,000 recoveries. Unfortunately, some 200,000 people have passed away as a result of this pandemic. 
4. The health systems and economies of many nations continue to struggle as a result of the coronavirus pandemic. 
5. Nigeria continues to adapt to these new global realities on a daily basis. Today, I will present the facts as they are and explain our plans for the coming months fully aware that some key variables and assumptions may change in the coming days or weeks. 
6. Exactly two weeks ago, there were 323 confirmed cases in 20 States and the Federal Capital Territory. 
7. As at this morning, Nigeria had recorded 1,273 cases across 32 States and the FCT. Unfortunately, this includes 40 deaths. 
8. I am using this opportunity to express our deepest condolences to the families of all Nigerians that have lost their loved ones as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. This is our collective loss and we share your grief. 
9. Initial models predicted that Nigeria will record an estimated 2,000 confirmed cases in the first month after the index case. 
10. This means that despite the increase in the number of confirmed cases recorded in the past two weeks, the measures we have put in place thus far have yielded positive outcomes against the projections. 
11. The proportion of cases imported from other countries has reduced to only 19% of new cases, showing that our border closures yielded positive results. These are mostly fellow Nigerians returning through our land borders. We will continue to enforce land border arrival protocols as part of the containment strategy. 
12. Today, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has accredited 15 laboratories across the country with an aggregate capacity to undertake 2,500 tests per day across the country. 
13. Based on your feedback, Lagos State Government and the FCT with support from NCDC have established several sample collection centers. They are also reviewing their laboratory testing strategy to further increase the number of tests they can perform including the accreditation of selected private laboratories that meet the accreditation criteria. 
14. Several new fully equipped treatment and isolation centres have been operationalised across the country thereby increasing bed capacity to about three thousand. 
15. I commend the State Governors for the activation of State-level Emergency Operation Centres, establishment of new treatment centres and the delivery of aggressive risk communication strategies. 
16. Over 10,000 healthcare workers have been trained. For their protection, additional personal protective equipment have been distributed to all the states. 
17. Although we have experienced logistical challenges, we remain committed to establishing a solid supply chain process to ensure these heroic professionals can work safely and are properly equipped. 
18. In keeping with our Government’s promise to improve the welfare of healthcare workers, we have signed a memorandum of understanding on the provision of hazard allowances and other incentives with key health sector professional associations. 
19. We have also procured insurance cover for 5,000 frontline health workers. At this point, I must commend the insurance sector for their support in achieving this within a short period of time. 
20. Nigeria has also continued to receive support from the international community, multilateral agencies, the private sector and public-spirited individuals. This support has ensured that critical lifesaving equipment and materials, which have become scarce globally, are available for Nigeria through original equipment manufacturers and government-to-government processes. 
21. The distribution and expansion of palliatives which I directed in my earlier broadcast is still on-going in a transparent manner. I am mindful of the seeming frustration being faced by expectant citizens. I urge all potential beneficiaries to exercise patience as we continue to fine tune our logistical and distribution processes working with the State Governments. 
22. Our Security Agencies continue to rise to the challenge posed by this unusual situation. While we feel deeply concerned about isolated security incidents, I want to assure all Nigerians that your safety and security remain our primary concern especially in these difficult and uncertain times. 
23. As we focus on protecting lives and properties, we will not tolerate any human rights abuse by our security agencies. The few reported incidences are regrettable, and I want to assure you that the culprits will be brought to justice. 
24. I urge all Nigerians to continue to cooperate and show understanding whenever they encounter security agents. Furthermore, for their protection, I have instructed that the personnel of all the security agencies be provided with the necessary personal protective equipment against infection.
25. As we continue to streamline our response in the centres of Lagos and the FCT, I am gravely concerned about the unfortunate developments in Kano in recent days. Although an in-depth investigation is still on-going, we have decided to deploy additional Federal Government manpower, material and technical resources to strengthen and support the State Government’s efforts, with immediate effect. 
26. In Kano, and indeed many other States that are recording new cases, preliminary findings show that such cases are mostly from interstate travel and emerging community transmission. 
27. Drawing from these, I implore all Nigerians to continue to adhere strictly to the advisories published by the Presidential Task Force and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control. 
28. These include regular hand washing, physical distancing, wearing of face masks/coverings in public, avoidance of non-essential movement and travels and avoidance of large gatherings. 
29. Fellow Nigerians, for the past four weeks, most parts of our country have been under either Federal Government or State Government lockdown. As I mentioned earlier, these steps were necessary and overall, have contributed to slowing down the spread of COVID-19 in our country. 
30. However, such lockdowns have also come at a very heavy economic cost. Many of our citizens have lost their means of livelihood. Many businesses have shut down. No country can afford the full impact of a sustained lockdown while awaiting the development of vaccines. 
31. In my last address, I mentioned that Federal Government will develop strategies and policies that will protect lives while preserving livelihoods. 
32. In these two weeks, the Federal and State Governments have jointly and collaboratively worked hard on how to balance the need to protect health while also preserving livelihoods, leveraging global best practices while keeping in mind our peculiar circumstances. 
33. We assessed how our factories, markets, traders and transporters can continue to function while at the same time adhering to NCDC guidelines on hygiene and social distancing. 
34. We assessed how our children can continue to learn without compromising their health. 
35. We reviewed how our farmers can safely plant and harvest in this rainy season to ensure our food security is not compromised. Furthermore, we also discussed how to safely transport food items from rural production areas to industrial processing zones and ultimately, to the key consumption centres. 
36. Our goal was to develop implementable policies that will ensure our economy continues to function while still maintaining our aggressive response to the COVID-19 pandemic. These same difficult decisions are being faced by leaders around the world. 
37. Based on the above and in line with the recommendations of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, the various Federal Government committees that have reviewed socio-economic matters and the Nigeria Governors Forum, I have approved a phased and gradual easing of lockdown measures in FCT, Lagos and Ogun States effective from Monday, 4th May, 2020. 
38. However, this will be followed strictly with aggressive reinforcement of testing and contact tracing measures while allowing the restoration of some economic and business activities in certain sectors. 
39. Furthermore, new nationwide measures are to be introduced as follows; 
a. There will be an overnight curfew from 8pm to 6am. This means all movements will be prohibited during this period except for essential services; 
b. There will be a ban on non-essential inter-state passenger travel until further notice; 
c. Partial and controlled interstate movement of goods and services will be allowed for the movement of goods and services from producers to consumers; and 
d. We will strictly ensure the mandatory use of face masks or coverings in public in addition to maintaining physical distancing and personal hygiene. Furthermore, the restrictions on social and religious gatherings shall remain in place. State Governments, corporate organisations and philanthropists are encouraged to support the production of cloth masks for citizens. 
40. For the avoidance of doubt, the lockdown in the FCT, Lagos and Ogun States shall remain in place until these new ones come into effect on Monday, 4th May 2020. 
41. The Presidential Task Force shall provide sector specific details to allow for preparations by Governments, businesses and institutions. 
42. In respect to the above guidelines, State Governors may choose to adapt and expand based on their unique circumstances provided they maintain alignment with the guidelines issued above. 
43. To support our businesses and traders, the monetary and fiscal authorities shall deploy all the necessary provisions needed for production to continue and thus, jobs restored. 
44. These revised guidelines will not apply to Kano State. 
45. With regards to Kano, I have directed the enforcement of a total lockdown for a period of two weeks effective immediately. The Federal Government shall deploy all the necessary human, material and technical resources to support the State in controlling and containing the pandemic and preventing the risk of further spread to neighboring States. 
46. I wish to once again, commend the frontline workers across the country who, on a daily basis, risk everything to ensure we win this fight. For those who got infected in the line of duty, rest assured that Government will do all it takes to support you and your families during this exceedingly difficult period. I will also take this opportunity to assure you all that your safety, wellbeing and welfare remain paramount to our Government. 
47. I will also recognize the support we have received from our traditional rulers, the Christian Association of Nigeria, the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs and other prominent religious and community leaders. Your cooperation and support have significantly contributed to the successes we have recorded to date. 
48. I will urge you all to please continue to create awareness on the seriousness of the coronavirus among your worshippers and communities while appealing that they strictly comply with public health advisories. 
49. I also thank the Nigeria Governors’ Forum and the Presidential Task Force for all their hard work to date. Through this collaboration, I remain confident that success is achievable. 
50. I also wish to thank corporate organizations, philanthropists, the UN system, the European Union, friendly nations, the media and other partners that have taken up the responsibility of supporting our response. 
51. And finally, I will thank all Nigerians again for your patience and cooperation during this difficult and challenging period. I assure you that government shall continue to take all necessary measures to protect the lives and livelihoods of our citizens and residents. 
52. I thank you for listening and may God bless the Federal Republic of Nigeria
--- Security of Nigerians remains a primary concern – President Buhari
The Nigerian President, Muhammadu Buhari has stated that the safety and security of Nigerians remains a primary concern of his administration “especially in these difficult and uncertain times”. 
The President stated this in his nationwide broadcast to Nigerians on Monday the 27th of April, 2020. 
President Buhari stated that even as his administration focuses on protecting lives and properties, it would not tolerate any human rights abuse by security agencies. 
“The few reported incidences are regrettable, and I want to assure you that the culprits will be brought to justice,” the President vowed. 
The President urged Nigerians to continue to cooperate and show understanding whenever they encounter security agents. 
--- COVID-19: President Buhari orders total lockdown of Kano
Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari has ordered the total lockdown of Kano State North West Nigeria following the mysterious deaths recorded in the state. 
The President who announced this in a nationwide broadcast added that the lockdown would be in place for two weeks with immediate effect. 
“The Federal Government shall deploy all the necessary human, material and technical resources to support the State in controlling and containing the pandemic and preventing the risk of further spread to neighboring States” President Buhari stated. 
He explained that preliminary findings in Kano and other states show that new cases are mostly from interstate travel and emerging community transmission,
--- NIS receives 13 Nigerian returnees from Togo
The Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) says it had received 13 Nigerians that arrived from Lome, Togo at Seme-Krake joint border post. 
The Spokesman, NIS, Mr Sunday James who disclosed this in a statement on Sunday in Abuja said that the returnees were technicians that went to install Industrial Machines in Togo. 
According to James, the 13 returnees have been handed over to officials of the Ministry of Health in Lagos for medical test. 
“Also for isolation in line with NCDC directives on medical procedures for new arrivals into the country to curtail the spread of Corona Virus,” he said. 
James said that Seme-Krake was a major entry-exit point into and out of Nigeria, bordering Benin Republic, adding that NIS was not taking chances in enforcing strict border patrol. 
He said that the service would apprehend anyone that wanted to circumvent the approved routes, hence the numbers that have been turning up through the Seme-Krake border post since the border closure. 
He said that the NIS Comptroller General, Mr Muhammad Babandede has advised the returnees to avoid following bush paths to avoid the experience of suffering in the hands of criminals in an effort to follow unrecognized routes risking. 
 --- President Buhari to address the nation at 19:00hrs GMT
President Muhammadu Buhari will address the nation today  Monday, April 27, at 19:00hrs GMT (8pm local time). 
Television, radio and other electronic media stations are enjoined to hook up to the network services of the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) and Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria (FRCN) respectively for the broadcast. 
Voice of Nigeria will also live-tweet the broadcast. 
Follow for updates on VON Social Media handles: 
--- President Buhari will address Nation today: will the president call put an end to the lockdown or add more days. 
The president of Nigeria Muhammadu Buhari will address Nigerians today by 8pm, Monday 27th of April, 2020.
All Nigerians want to listen to what the President wants to say about the lockdown.
The assistant to the president on media announce this.
--- Reps to resume plenary April 28
The Nigerian House of Representatives is to resume plenary on Tuesday after over one month suspension over the Covid-19 pandemic in the country. 
The Lawmakers had on March 24th suspended plenary for two weeks to allow the management of the National Assembly put safety measures that would prevent the spread of the deadly disease in the Complex, but one week later government impose a lock down on Abuja the Nation’s capital and two other States, worst hit by the disease to curb its spread. 
A statement from the Clerk to the House of Representatives, Mr. Patrick Giwa advised members to take note and abide by the Covid-19 Guidelines approved by the Federal Government and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and additional Guidelines developed by the House which will be sent to Members. 
However the statement directed that Members’ aides and Staff of the National Assembly to work from home and “will be notified when needed in the office for any special assignment.” 
On resumption, the lawmakers are expected to focus on measures to strengthen the fight against the pandemic as well as its impact on the Nation’s economy.   
--- Federal government had been studying the case in Kano State- Minister
Minister for health in Nigeria, Osagie Ehanire said the federal government and Kano state government had been studying the case in Kano State with their authorities, adding that the ministry would be sending high ranking fact finding missions there. 
Ehanire said that the fact finding mission would meet with the governor to be able to diagnose the situation, adding it was not really clear if they were COVID-19 related. 
Ehanire said that the fact finding mission would also looked at if there would be room for improvement in the state’s response activities on COVID-19, like surveillance, testing, case finding, contact tracing and isolation. 
“Kano does not have experience with COVID-19 and the rate it has exploded should be of concern to all.  
”It is possible to be able to contain it, if the right processes are followed and the right resources are brought in.
The minister said Lagos which is more populated like Kano has efficient instruments and that Lagos state act fast in fighting corona virus because of the experience during Ebola crisis in 2014.
Minister continued that the materials and instrument that Kano state have, though  they are trying their best, Lagos state cannot be compared with Kano state, because the workers and the instrument that Lagos have, Kano does not have such.
Ehanire said forty (40) health workers have been infected with corona virus in Nigeria, but they were not infected on duty. 
--- President Buhari will determine when to lift lockdown – Minister
The Nigerian Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, on Sunday said President Mohammadu Buhari would determine when to lift the lockdown occasioned by the novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic in the country. 
The minister said that the decision to extend COVID-19 lockdown was tailored according to the needs of every country. 
“The President in his wisdom will decide if the lockdown will be lifted,” he said. 
---  Another eighty seven (87) people have been tested positive in Nigeria. 
Nigeria has recorded 87 new cases of the novel Coronavirus known COVID-19 pandemic, bringing the total number of the confirmed cases to 1182. 
On its official Twitter handle @NCDCgov, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, reported ”33 of the new cases in Lagos, 18 in Borno, 12 in Osun, 9 in Katsina, 4 in Kano 4 in Ekiti, 3 in Edo, 3 in Bauchi and 1 in Imo with 222 Discharged and 35 Deaths.” 
--- WHO appoints Okonjo-Iweala as COVID-19 Special Envoy
The World Health Organisation, WHO, has appointed Nigeria’s former Finance Minister, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala as Special Envoy for the newly inaugurated Access to COVID-19 Tools (ACT) Accelerator. 
Dr Okonjo-Iweala is to serve alongside British Business Executive, Sir Andrew Witty in the same capacity, to mobilise international commitment to the initiative. 
This was made known by Director-General of the organisation, Dr. Tedros Ghebreyesus, during the launch of the ACT Accelerator — via webinar from Geneva. 
“I would especially like to thank Sir Andrew Witty and Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala for agreeing to act as Special Envoys for the ACT Accelerator,” Ghebreyesus said in his remarks. 
According to him, ”the initiative is an international collaboration aimed at accelerating the development, production, and equitable distribution of COVID-19 drugs, test kits, and vaccines around the world.” 
The former Finance Minister had this month been named a member of the External Advisory Group constituted by the Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Kristalina Georgieva. 
The group is to meet a few times a year, to provide perspectives on key developments and policy issues. 
--- COVID-19: President Buhari’s Wife distributes medical items
Nigeria’s First Lady, Mrs Aisha Buhari has donated medical items to support the fight against the spread of the deadly Coronavirus disease known as COVID-19. 
Mrs Buhari has shown deep concern over the spread of the dreaded COVID-19 across Nigeria and has activated her Get Involved Initiative in order to gather donations to support the fight. 
She expressed appreciation to those who donated to the course, saying “the nation will benefit from their donations.’’ 
A call to stay safe Mrs Buhari therefore called on Nigerians to stay safe and practice social distancing in order to defeat the pandemic. 
She also urged “the benefitting states to ensure that the items donated were used judiciously.’’ 
Mrs Buhari’s Senior Special Assistant on Administration and Women Affairs, Dr Hajo Sani represented her during the distribution ceremony in Abuja. 
The items distributed include; cartons of assorted hand sanitisers, pharmaceutical drugs, personal protection equipment including disposable gowns and overalls. 
Other items include disposable and surgical masks, gloves, protective goggles, regular and ICU beds with beddings, and automatic dispensers. 
The items were distributed to three states of Bauchi, Gombe and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). 
Appreciation Receiving the items on behalf of FCT, the Director, Special Duties, FCT Health and Human Services Secretariat, Dr Mathew Ashikeni, expressed gratitude to the first lady for the gesture. 
Dr Ashikeni said; “the donation would go a long way in supporting the fight against COVID-19 pandemic in the nation’s capital.’’ 
He assured the delegation that the items would be used judiciously. 
--- Nigeria’s COVID-19 cases up by 114, total now 1095
Nigeria on the 24th of April recorded 114 new cases of persons who tested positive to COVID-19 taking the total number of confirmed cases to the four digits for the first time. 
The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in a tweet released at 11: 35 Pm late Friday night 24th April, 2020 records that 
114 new cases of #COVID19 have been reported; 80 in Lagos 21 in Gombe 5 in FCT 2 in Zamfara 2 in Edo 1 in Ogun 1 in Oyo 1 in Kaduna 1 in Sokoto 
--- Abba Kyari was a faithful man to president Buhari and a good spokesman for America government: 
The government of America has described late Abba Kyari as a good chief of staff for president Buhari and good spokesman for America government. 
In his condolence message to president Muhammad Buhari, the state assistant senior secretary in charge of Africa, Tibor Nagy, was commending the brave life lived by late Kyari most especially through which America refund a sum of three hundred million dollars that late Sani Abacha looted to America back to Nigeria. 
Nagy said was a faithful chief of staff to president Buhari and a good spokesman for America government most especially a good leader to our representative in Abuja.
We are delighted to work with late Kyari especially how they refunded three million dollars that late Sani Abacha looted to America back to Nigeria.
He advised that the money be divided into three to do some important projects in order to establish unity and the economy of Nigeria. 
Nangy spoke when he was condoling with government and citizen of Nigeria and Kyari’s family, he also said that America government has promised to support Nigeria in fighting Corona virus.
President also received a condolence letter from minister of Niger Delta, Usani Uguru Usani, the businessman from Kano, Alhaji Sabiu Bako and the head of civil service. 
--- Nigeria records 108 new cases of COVID-19
One hundred and eight new cases of the novel Coronavirus known as COVID-19 pandemic have been reported in Nigeria. 
The latest brings the total number of the confirmed cases to 981. 
On its official Twitter handle @NCDCgov, the Centre for Disease Control reported; 
Out of the 981, 78 of the new cases in Lagos, 14 in the FCT, 5 in Ogun, 4 in Gombe, 3 Borno, 2 in Akwa Ibom, 1 in Kwara and 1 in Plateau.
--- NAF trains flight Nurses, Aircrew for effective aeromedical evacuation
The Nigerian Air Force NAF has conducted a training for some of its flight nurses and aircrew. 
The training is in furtherance of efforts to build the capacity of its personnel for the effective and efficient conduct of Aeromedical Evacuation missions to airlift wounded soldiers from various theatres of operation to appropriate treatment facilities. 
The Director of Public Relations and Information, NAF Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola said the week-long training, has ended with a simulation exercise at the flight line of the 307 Executive Airlift Group, Nnamdi Azikwe International Airport, Abuja using the C-130H aircraft, was aimed at enhancing the knowledge of participants to enable them ensure that wounded personnel are stabilized and provided necessary life support from point of enplaning until they arrive at the destination facility. 
Daramola noted that a NAF C-130H aircraft has been configured to carry specialized stretchers for the patients along with necessary life support equipment, including patient monitors and ventilators  
The Chief of the Air Staff CAS, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, expressed satisfaction with the conduct of the training and simulation exercise of the nurses that are part of the crew members.
He noted that the capability, which would reduce the risk to wounded personnel and enhance their chances of survival, could also be deployed for the emergency movement of COVID-19 patients, if so required. 
The CAS disclosed that the NAF had, over the past four and half years, made concerted efforts to build the capacity of its Medical personnel to not only ensure the provision of qualitative healthcare services to personnel and their families but also to ensure effective care for personnel wounded in action. 
--- Military destroys compound housing terrorists in Borno
The Armed Forces of Nigeria, through the Air Task Force of Operation LAFIYA DOLE, has destroyed compounds housing boko haram terrorists’ leaders at Bulawa on the fringes of the Sambisa Forest in Borno State. 
The Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Major General John Enenche said “the air strikes were executed based on credible human intelligence reports as well as Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance missions that led to the identification of the target compounds within the settlement”.  
Enenche stated that fighter jets dispatched by the Air Task Force to take out the compounds scored accurate hits in the target area, leading to the destruction of some of the structures as well as the neutralisation of some of the terrorists occupying the compounds. 
April 24, 2020 --- President Buhari felicitates with Muslims as Ramandan begins
President Muhammadu Buhari has sent his best wishes to Muslims in the country and all over the world as they begin this year’s 30-day fast, following the sighting of the moon. 
“I congratulate all Muslims as they commence this year’s Ramadan fast which is depicted by self-denial, universal brotherhood, austerity and helping relatives and needy people,”  President Buhari said. 
He described this year’s Ramadan as a challenge, as it is in the period of the global pandemic, which has spread to more than 200 nations, with virtually all countries advising citizens to avoid large gatherings and have their prayers and meals (suhoor and iftar) individually or with family at home. 
“In this Ramadan period, the kind of socializing you are used to now risks spreading the Coronavirus,” the President cautioned Muslims, while enjoining them to refrain from those Ramadan rituals and traditions such as group meals and congregational prayers that have been put on hold by Muslim religious authorities all over the world. 
President Buhari urged Muslims to endure and not to use the Coronavirus as an excuse not to participate in the Ramadan fast, unless such abstention is warranted by the excuses clearly outlined by health and religious authorities. 
He wished Muslims in the country and the world over all the blessings of the holy month. 
--- COVID-19: Nigeria confirms 91 new cases
Nigeria has confirmed 91 new cases of the novel coronavirus also known as COVID-19. 
With the latest addition, the number of confirmed cases has hit 873 in the country with 197 discharged and 25 deaths. There are 26 states with confirmed cases in Nigeria. 
91 new cases of #COVID19 have been reported; 74 in Lagos 5 in Katsina 4 in Ogun 2 in Delta 2 in Edo 1 in Kwara 1 in Oyo 1 in FCT 1 in Adamawa. 
--- Lagos state house of assembly appeals for the endurance of covid 19 lockdown .
Lagos state house of assembly has appealed to the people of Lagos to please endure the challenge as a result of the lockdown to stop the spread of corona virus. 
The committee in charge of health and the committee in charge of news in the house of assembly made this appeal when talking with the journalist on their observation at the visit to the materials prepared for the treatment of COVID-19 in Lagos state.
The chairman of the committee on health at the Lagos state house of assembly, Honorable Hakeem, that lead the crew said it is important that people of Lagos follow the lockdown barn made by the government to curb the spread of this corona virus.
Another member of the state house of assembly present was the chairman committee on news and politics at the house of assembly Honorable Tunde Braimoh; Honorable Desmond Elliot, Honorable Temitope Adewale. 
The committee pays a visit the hospital treating the pandemic at Yaba; waiting hall for testing around Mobolaji Johnson at Onikan; waiting hall for testing alongVitiria Island at Eti-Osa Local government area and the general hospital  at Gbagada.
The committee perceived that the material for treatment and the services there were of good standing to fight the spread of corona virus in Lagos state, which the federal government support
They promised that to find a solution to the little challenges faced at these hospitals immediately, which have to do with the insufficiency of materials with which the workers protect themselves 
The government is trying all their effort in fight this virus, but we the citizen have to support the government for the success of this .       
Honorable Shokunle in his statement  said one important way to stop the spread of this virus is the lockdown.
I know this is not possible, but sometimes if we consider the effect of this kind of corona virus we will see that it is important to do do this
Honorable Tunde Bramoh also appeal the people in the state to be more patient, in so much that all these happened unexpectedly and it need to be handled with a serious hand. 
We appeal because of COVID-19is one issue and the convenience of the people is another.
We should also know that the case of corona virus deals with human life, that is why it is important to settle the case of the virus first. 
The committee visited the four treatment halls for corona virus in Lagos state, where they provided the necessary materials and the necessary workers and the hall is  bed space  
--- Oyo Governor mourns former Attorney-General 
The Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, has mourned the Second Republic Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Chief Richard Akinjide (SAN), describing his demise as the end of an era and a huge loss to Oyo State, the legal profession, the Federal Republic of Nigeria and indeed, the world at large. 
The Governor, in a condolence message made available through his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Taiwo Adisa, said he was saddened by the demise of the foremost legal luminary, noting that Akinjide was an exemplary indigene of Ibadan and Oyo State and a detribalised Nigerian, who served his state and country to the best of his ability. 
The Governor said, “The news of the death of our father, leader and one of the last men standing among the foremost politicians of the country, Chief Richard Akinjide, came to us as a shock”. 
 He maintained that the former Minister’s death came at a period that his wealth of experience and robust versatility in history, politics and law was needed to offer direction to the current generation of Nigerian leaders. 
Makinde noted, “This is because Baba, for those who know him or has seen him in recent time, did not show any sign of slowing down; he continued to lead intelligent and history-laden conversations, offered golden advice on governance and leadership and remained a great pillar of experience in politics and law.” 
“I commiserate with my sister and Chieftain of our Party, the People’s Democratic Party PDP, Oloye Jumoke Akinjide and the rest of Baba’s biological and political children.  
The Governor further condoled with all indigenes of Oyo State and Nigerians on the exit of a giant of Akinjide’s standing. 
--- Military troops neutralise 21 bandits in Zamfara
Military troops of Operation Hadarin Daji have killed no fewer than 21 armed bandits in an encounter at Zurmi in Zurmi Local Government Area of Zamfara. 
The Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Maj.-Gen. John Enenche, who disclosed this in a statement on Wednesday in Abuja, said four soldiers died during the encounter. 
Enenche said that more details would be provided after the exploitation operation in the area. 
He added that the troops had begun aggressive patrols in the area for domination and confidence building among the locals. 
--- COVID-19: Kano to begin distribution of food to residents
Kano State Government is to commence distribution of foodstuff as palliatives to residents to cushion the effect of the lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Special Adviser to the Governor on Media, Salihu Tanko Yakasai announced this on his verified Twitter handle on Sunday night. 
He said the distribution would cut across all the 44 local government areas of the State to the vulnerable. 
The one-week lockdown order issued by the state governor, Dr Abdullahi Ganduje commenced on Thursday by 10.00 pm and will last till Wednesday. 
Ganduje said the order is subject to review. 
The Kano state COVID-19 Fundraising Committee headed by Prof. Muhammad Yahuza Bello recently said the committee has received about 15 types of food items and equally raised close to N400 million naira. 
--- Nigeria confirms 86 new cases of Coronavirus
Nigeria, on the  19th of April, confirmed 86 new cases of persons with COVID 19. 
In a tweet released by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) at 11.50 PM, Sunday night,  70 of these new cases were recorded in Lagos, 7 in the FCT, 3 in Katsina, 3 in Akwa Ibom and 1 each from Jigawa, Bauchi and Borno States. 
Eighty-six new cases of #COVID19 have been reported; 70 in Lagos 7 in FCT 3 in Katsina 3 in Akwa Ibom 1 in Jigawa 1 in Bauchi 1 in Borno 
--- Abba Kyari: President Buhari commiserates with Borno State
President Muhammadu Buhari on Sunday called Borno State Governor, Prof. Babagana Zulum and some leading traditional rulers of Borno State, including District Head of Banki and elder brother of late Chief of Staff to the President, Mallam Abba Kyari, Zanna Baba Shehu Arjinoma, to offer his condolences.
In a telephone conversation, the President commiserated with the head of the family and members;  Shehu of Borno, Shehu Abubakar Ibn Umar Garbai El-Kanemi; Shehu of Bama, Shehu Kyari ibn Umar ibn Ibrahim Elkenemi.
President Buhari described the death of the late Chief of Staff as a shared loss, and urged the government and people of Borno State, members of the family to take solace in the fact that Mallam Kyari lived a life worthy of example.
He said, “Abba was the very best of us. 
He was made of the stuff that makes Nigeria great.”
The President continued to receive messages from far and wide, condoling him and the nation following the demise of his Chief of Staff.
Among those who called or sent letters are: former President, General Ibrahim Babangida; Governors of Rivers, Nyesom Wike, Enugu, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, Yobe, Mai Mala Buni, Taraba, Darius Dickson Ishaku and the President’s classmates who enrolled in 1953 into the Katsina Middle School, through their leader Sen.  Abba Ali.
The President also received messages from the President of the United Nations General Assembly, Ambassador (Prof.) Tijjani Muhammad-Bande, the global network of Editors, the International Press Institute, IPI, the President of the Nigerian Guild of Editors, Mustapha Isa, the Emir of Kano, Aminu Ado Bayero, the patriarch of the Dantata family in Kano, Alhaji Aminu Dantata, the leader of the Izala religious movement in Nigeria, Alhaji Bala Lau and Deputy Majority Leader of the Senate, Bala Ibn Na’Allah.
Others are: Nigerian Ambassador to the USA, Justice Sylvanus Adiewere Nsofor, Emir of Zamfara, His Royal Highness, Alhaji Attahiru Muhammad Ahmad, Senator Umaru Kurfi, Burhan Karabult, Nigeria’s Turkish partner in the Defence Industries Corporation, DICON, Professor James Momoh, Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission and renowned Kano preacher, Ustashi Tijjani Bala Kalarawi.
--- Fourty seven people loss their lives in an attack in Kastina
President Muhammadu Buhari has shown his displeasure over the attack in three local government areas in Kastina state where forty seven people loss their lives. 
President Buhari said this when he answering question about the evil incidence that happened on Sunday. President said he was sad about the attack.
He then appealed all Nigerians to be at rest that this government has purposed to fight and to punish all criminals that use the time of lockdown to harm the innocent.
President Buhari said he will not agree with the way criminals are killing the innocents and “according to my decision to see to the safety of the citizen, we shall see that we fight this attacks”.
The president then command all the law enforcement agents not to relent in fighting the criminal and make them scape goats.
President mourn with the families of those that loss their lives, he appeal to all to be watchful and to report to the law enforcement agents if they suspect criminals in their environment. 
--- House Speaker, others mourn Abba Kyari
The Speaker of Nigeria’s House of Representatives Mr. Femi Gbajabiamila has described the death of the Chief of Staff to the President, Malam Abba Kyari as shocking and sad. 
In a condolence message signed by Special Adviser to the Speaker on Media and Publicity, Mr. Lanre Lasisi, Mr. Gbajabiamila said it was unfortunate that Abba Kyari died as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which is now ravaging countries all over the world. 
He said Abba Kyari would be remembered for his selfless and dedicated service to Nigeria right from his days as a private citizen through the time he served as the Chief of Staff to the President . 
The Deputy Speaker of the House, Alhaji Idris Ahmed Wase in his message condoled with President Muhammadu Buhari over the death of his Chief of Staff, Mallam Abba Kyari. 
He has also extended his heartfelt condolences to his immediate family and the people and government of Borno State on the loss of their illustrious son. 
The Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Mr. Ndudi Elumelu, in a statement described Mallam Abba Kyari’s death as a huge loss to the nation, particularly at this critical time. 
--- Chief of Staff to Nigerian President dies of COVID-19
The Chief of Staff to the Nigerian president Abba Kyari is dead. 
Special Adviser to President Buhari on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina who made the announcement in the early hours of Saturday stated that Mallam Kyari died on Friday, April 17, 2020. 
It would be recalled that the deceased had earlier tested positive to the ravaging COVID-19, and had been receiving treatment. 
Adesina said funeral arrangements will be announced shortly and prayed to God to  rest his soul. 
--- COVID-19: Nigeria confirms 51 new cases
Nigeria has confirmed 51 new cases of the novel coronavirus also known as COVID-19. 
Fifty-one new cases of #COVID19 have been reported; 
--- COVID-19: Minister urges Nigerians to report illegal entry from borders
The Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, has urged Nigerians to promptly report any perceived illegal entry into the country through the nation’s borders to the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS). 
Aregbesola said this while answering questions at the Presidential Taskforce on COVID-19 on Thursday in Abuja. 
He said that it was illegal for anybody to import COVID-19 into the country by any means in spite of the huge sacrifices the citizenry made with the stay-at-home order by the Federal Government. 
“Nigerians have sacrificed a lot to curtail COVID-19 and we should be alert to any illegal entry, this gain came at high price and it has taken toll on our economy, spiritual and social lives. 
“We must support the country to keep our nation secure, our hospitality and sense of compassion which is the hallmark of Nigeria should not be taken for granted,” he said. 
Prisoner Amnesty Speaking on the released prisoners by the Federal Government, Aregbesola said that 70 Federal offenders were to benefit from the amnesty, while 2,600 were state offenders. 
Aregbesola said President Muhammadu Buhari had ordered the Attorney General for the Federation to liaise with states to free the 2,600 offenders. 
He said that the federal government was committed to decongesting the correctional centres. 
The minister commended the endurance and resilience of Nigerians and front line health workers to curtail the spread of COVID-19. 
He called on states like Lagos, Sokoto, Cross Rivers and Niger who share borders with other countries to ensure that the borders were closely monitored so as not to allow aliens into the country at this period. 
--- COVID-19 Lockdown: FCTA releases new guidelines on cessation of movement
The Federal Capital Territory Administration, FCTA has released new guidelines on cessation of movement aimed at containing the continuous spread of COVID-19 virus within the FCT. 
According to information on the FCTA official twitter account, this became necessary following a review of the effect and level of compliance of the cessation of movement within the FCT. 
Some of the new directives issued by the FCT COVID-19 Security committee chaired by the FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello include: 
Market days now Wednesday and Saturdays only.
Patronize Markets Close To Your Neighborhood 
Motorcycles banned in Kubwa and Dutse. 
--- President Buhari rejoices with British PM Johnson for overcoming Coronavirus
President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated British Prime Minister, Boris Johnson following his discharge from the hospital over COVID-19. 
In a congratulatory letter dated April 14, 2020, to Mr Johnson, President Buhari said, “I received with great relief the news of your discharge from hospital after being successfully treated for COVID-19.” 
President Buhari also wished the Prime Minister full recovery and good health in the coming days. 
--- COVID-19: China is fighting corona virus not Nigerians or Africans in China. – Minister
Nigeria government have said that China government is fighting corona virus not that they hate or did wrong to the Nigerians or the Africans living in Guangzhou in China.
The minister for foreign affairs, Mr. Geoffrey Onyeama, and the china ambassador in Nigeria, Zhou Pingjian, said this to journalist in Abuja.
The cause was the video clip that the Nigerians are sending about the wrong deeds to the Nigerians living in China.
The minister continued that a woman selling food in  Guangzhou in China that is COVID 19 positive in 2019 with the Nigerians that were buying food from her and were infected are the ones to be isolated but it went other way through disobedience.
Minister said again that a relationship is between China and Nigeria, the two nations have collaborated to settle the problem.
--- COVID-19: President Buhari hails Media, Security and Health workers
President Muhammadu Buhari has thanked the Nigerian media, health workers and security agencies for working so hard as the country tries to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. 
The president in a nationwide broadcast to citizens on Monday evening said: 
“I must recognise the incredible work being done by our healthcare workers and volunteers across the country especially in frontline areas of Lagos and Ogun States as well as Abuja. 
“You are our heroes and as a nation, we will forever remain grateful for your sacrifice during this very difficult time. 
More measures to motivate our health care workers are being introduced which we will announce in the coming weeks. 
“I must also thank the media houses, celebrities and other public figures for the great work they are doing in sensitizing our citizens on hygienic practices, social distancing and issues associated with social gatherings.  
As a result of the overwhelming support and cooperation received, we were able to achieve a lot during these 14 days of initial lockdown. 
“The Security Agencies have risen to the challenges posed by this unprecedented situation with gallantry and I commend them. 
I urge them to continue to maintain utmost vigilance, firmness as well as restraint in enforcing the restriction orders while not neglecting statutory security responsibilities.” 
The Nigerian leader expressed optimism that as a nation, Nigeria is on the right track to win the fight against COVID-19.  
--- the police arrest the criminal that kill Evangelist Grace Ajibola in Ibadan
The Nigeria police force in Oyo state has paraded a criminal suspect, Abegunde Olaniyi which have a hand in the killing of Miss Grace Ajibola who is an Evangelist in a Christian church around Oluyole in Ibadan, southwest of Nigeria on seventeen of march, 2020.
In his explanation, the commissioner of police, Shina Olukolu made it known that criminal suspect killed Miss Grace Ajibola after collected a sum of two million naira from her bank account.
But the suspect was caught when the Nigeria police force in Oyo state arrested him and was charged.
The Nigeria police force also took from him about three ATM cards, a techno cellular phone, different cloth and stick with which he killed the woman.
Also Nigeria police force in Oyo state paraded some suspected kidnappers and suspected armed robbers in some areas in Oyo state. 
Part of what the Nigeria police force in Oyo state collected from this suspects are two pistols; ammunitions, six motor cycle  and some other things like knife; one cutlass 
The commissioner of police, Shina Olukolu added in his words that the people of Oyo state should not be afraid because the Nigeria police is ready to provide safety for live and properties most especially in the period of lockdown going on because of the COVID-19 pandemic the whole world is fighting.   
--- COVID-19. We will not forgive anyone that go against the law of lockdown. Oyo state Commissioner of police.
Commissioner of police in Oyo state, Shina Olukolu has made the public notice that they will not forgive anyone go against he law of lockdown in Oyo state. 
He continued that anyone that do against will face the wrath of the law.
Commissioner of police open this up when he paraded suspected criminals that are not less than twenty at the police headquarters in Oyo state around Eleyele in Ibadan southwest Nigeria.
In his explanation, the commissioner of police made it known that Governor of Oyo state Seyi Makinde made the law for lockdown in a way to stop the spread of corona virus known as COVID-19 
The governor of Oyo state inert lockdown law from twenty nine of March, 2020, in which the government barn anyone from going out from 7pm till 6am the following day.
This law does not allow anyone under any circumstances to do anything after 7pm daily.
But the commissioner show his displeasure to the disobedience act of some people to fight the police to the extent that they were hospitalized.   
--- COVID-19: Another five (5) people were discovered in Nigeria.
Another five (5) people were discovered to be COVID-19 positive in Nigeria, which make the total number of those positive to be three hundred and twenty three (323), when eighty five (85) people are discharged, ten (10) people are dead. Nigeria center for disease control (NCDC) announced this on their Twitter handle @NCDC.gov
Out of the new eight (8) people discovered,  two (2) from Lagos state, one (1) from Kastina. The states in which corona virus has been discovered in Nigeria are nineteen (19) states. Ademola Adepoju
--- COVID-19: do not use politics in the effort against corona-IBB
A Former Military President of Nigeria, Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida, has commended the Nigerian government on the efforts so far made towards managing the spread of COVID 19 in the Country. 
While equally commending the states Governors in the Country, General Ibrahim Babangida, mentioned that despite the rising numbers of the Covid-19 in the Country, the situation is still being kept at manageable levels within the limits of the health care system . He gave the commendation on Sunday, in Minna, the Niger State Capital. 
He however urged Nigerians to collectively observe all recommendations of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and adhere strictly to directives of government on basic hygiene to prevent spread of the COVID 19”. 
--- Easter: Osun Speaker urges Nigerians to keep hope alive
Mr Timothy Owoeye, the Speaker of Osun House of Assembly, has urged the Christians and Nigerians to keep hope alive in spite the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic in the country. 
Owoeye in an Easter message on Saturday said that the end of the world was not yet here with the outbreak of Coronavirus. 
He urged well meaning individuals in the country not to leave the gesture of bringing succour to lives of the vulnerable Nigerians. 
He added: “We should let the significance of Easter reflect in our relationship with one another. 
“We should not leave or limit the provision of palliatives to cushion in the effect of COVID-19 to government and politicians alone. 
“There is no doubt that these are tough times, but we must keep hope alive that life will be better and that this trying period too shall pass.” 
--- COVID-19 pandemic
COVID-19 is a deadly disease, that make the economy of the whole world collapsed.
This was why the government of Nigeria took the step to declare a lockdown in Lagos state, Ogun state and Abuja to protect the lives of all in Nigeria.
In following the guidelines given by the ministry of health and to adhere to this guidelines only can make us overcome.
--- Easter: Oyo Governor, Seyi Makinde calls for increased faith despite COVID-19
The Governor of Oyo State, Seyi Makinde, has called on Christians in the State to be full of faith in the power of the resurrection at Easter, particularly when the whole world is faced with the Coronavirus pandemic. 
The Governor stated this in his Easter message to the people of the State. 
Makinde noted that, “At Easter, we Christians are reminded about the basis of our faith, Faith in the power of the resurrection. 
And at this time, when the world is thrown into COVID-19 turmoil, we have faith, the assurance of things yet unseen. We believe.” 
He added that despite the fact that the partial lockdown in the State necessitated by the Coronavirus has prevented many citizens from providing for their families as they used to.
Governor Makinde affirmed that his administration would always make the welfare of the citizens a priority. 
The Governor further encouraged the people of the State to stay home and stay safe. 
--- FULL TEXT OF PRESIDENT MUHAMMADU BUHARI’S 2020 EASTER MESSAGE TO NIGERIANS
I rejoice with our Christian brothers and sisters as well as all Nigerians on the occasion of the celebration of this year’s Easter.   
This year’s commemoration of Easter comes amid the grip with which COVID-19 has held the entire world. 
Unprecedented in living memory, majority of Christians have found themselves marking Easter in a subdued manner, away from the usual congregation in churches. 
This is unusual and very unfortunate. 
However, I wish to enjoin our Christian compatriots to rekindle their faith in Christ who overcame persecution, sufferings and displayed endurance, steadfastness and above all piety.  
Jesus Christ represented man’s ability to withstand temporary pains in the hope of everlasting glory. 
I urge you to imbibe and live the values of humility, discipline, perseverance, sacrifice and obedience which Jesus Christ demonstrated during His stay on earth. 
There is no better opportunity than now for all Christians in particular, and Nigerians in general, to remain faithful and hopeful that with intensified prayers backed by personal and collective responsibility, the nation shall pull through this most difficult trial.  
I have no doubt that if all stakeholders – individuals and groups – play their part to the fullest as advised by our scientists and medical experts in confronting COVID-19, the inherent resilience and determination of our people will enable us to pull through. 
As I stated in my national broadcast on Sunday, March 29, 2020, since there is currently no known vaccine against the virus, “the best and most efficient way to avoid getting infected is through regular hygiene and sanitary practices as well as social distancing.” 
May I use this opportunity to commend the encouraging containment and ameliorating strategies put in place by members of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19.   
I am very much aware of the personal and collective inconveniences suffered by our people due to measures such as restriction of movements and closure of business premises. 
Being “a matter of life and death,” these sacrifices are in everybody’s interest to save our country from calamity.   
The welfare of our people is paramount. 
Accordingly, the most economically vulnerable in our communities will continue to be uppermost in our plans, and efforts will be made to supply them with basic means of survival.   
While we see the COVID-19 pandemic as a global challenge, this administration is not oblivious of the constant threat posed to our national security by terrorists and insurgents. 
They may take this opportunity to perpetrate attacks.  
But our armed forces and other security and intelligence services will remain vigilant and continue to contain these threats and consolidate efforts to eradicate them completely. 
As we mark this year’s Easter, whatever the circumstances, I encourage you to make the most of the situation and to keep safe. 
I wish you all a Happy Easter.   
Muhammadu Buhari, President, Federal Republic of Nigeria 
--- Breaking: Nigeria’s Treasury House on fire
Nigeria’s Treasury House, which is the office building of the Accountant General of the Federation is currently on fire, in the capital, Abuja.
--- COVID-19: Nigeria confirms six new cases
Nigeria has confirmed six new cases of the novel coronavirus also known as COVID-19. 
With the latest addition, the number of confirmed cases has hit 238 in the country with 35 discharged and five deaths. 
--- President Buhari orders distribution of seized rice to Nigerians
President Muhammadu Buhari has ordered distribution of 150 trucks of rice seized by Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) to the 36 states of the federation. 
The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed disclosed this while fielding questions from journalists at a news conference in Abuja on Monday. 
Ahmed said the seized trucks of rice had been handed over to the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs and Disaster Management for onward distributions to Nigerians. 
She added that in addition to this, the president had also approved distribution of grains from strategic grain reserves across the country. 
The minister stated that as part of the effort to support the farmers, the president also approved reduction of the price of fertilizer from N5,500 to N5,000 per bag. 
According to her, more measures will be taken to provide broader benefits to the citizens. 
--- Easter: Nigerian Government declares Friday, Monday Public Holidays
The Nigerian Government has declared Friday, April 10 and Monday 13, as public holidays to mark the 2020 Easter Celebration. 
The Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola made the declaration on behalf of the Federal Government on Monday in Abuja. 
Aregbesola urged Christians in the country to emulate the outstanding characteristics of Jesus Christ amongst which were tolerance, love, peace and compassion. 
Aregbesola called on Christians to use the occasion of this year’s Easter celebration to pray for Nigeria and the entire world at this time of the global emergency of COVID-19 pandemic. 
The Minister appealed to all Nigerians to continue to support the efforts of Government towards fighting the Coronavirus Disease. 
He reminded Nigerians of the need to adhere strictly to the measures put in place by relevant authorities towards preventing the spread of the virus in the country, particularly, through the observance of social distancing, in addition to regular personal hygiene and sanitary practices. 
Aregbesola wished Christians a peaceful Easter celebration. 
--- COVID-19: Oyo Governor tests negative, resumes work today
Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde says he has tested negative for the coronavirus in a second test and promised to resume work on Monday. 
Makinde confirmed this on Sunday night through his twitter handle after he received the result of his second test. 
The governor had on March 30 through his twitter handle confirmed that he tested positive for COVID-19. 
He had since gone into isolation after which his second test result on Sunday confirmed him negative for the virus. 
--- COVID-19: NCDC confirms 8 new cases, total 232
Eight new cases of COVID-19 infections have been confirmed in Nigeria by The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) bringing the total to 232. 
The agency announced this via its Twitter handle, @NCDCgov, on Sunday 5th April at 09:30 pm (Local Time). 
Of the eight new cases, 5 were reported in Lagos State, 2 in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and 1 in Kaduna State. 
--- COVID-19: Lagos State Governor rolls out more palliative measures
Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has announced more palliative measures for vulnerable residents who might be affected by the ongoing 14-day lockdown directive of the Federal Government. 
Speaking after the weekly Security Council Meeting at State House, Marina, Sanwo-Olu said that medical bills incurred by patients admitted into public secondary and tertiary healthcare facilities for the duration of the lockdown will be offset by the Lagos State government. 
Sanwo-Olu asserted that the decision was taken to ameliorate the difficulty encountered by patients whose regular business has been affected by the restriction order imposed to curtail the spread of COVID-19. 
Appealing to residents for more patience with the government, Sanwo-Olu said the restriction order has facilitated quicker movement by officials of the Ministry of Health and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in tracing contacts of patients already being treated at the Infectious Diseases Hospital, Yaba. 
Sanwo-Olu reiterated his government’s commitment to the security of lives and property. 
He warned hoodlums to desist from taking advantage of the restriction order to disturb the peace as the security agencies have been instructed to ensure 24-hour security surveillance across the State.   
--- COVID-19: NCDC confirms 10 new cases, total 224
The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has confirmed ten new cases in Nigeria bringing the total to 224.   
Of the ten new cases, 6 were reported in Lagos State, 2 in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and 2 in Edo State. 
--- COVID-19: Another five were discovered in Nigeria 
Other five people were discovered to be positive of corona virus (COVID-19) in Nigeria, which make total to be two hundred and fourteen (214).  
Nigeria Centre for disease control announced this on their twitter handle @NCDCgov, on Saturday night by 10:10p.m  localtime.
Out of the five new people discovered, three (3) in Bauchi (Northeast) and two (2) in Abuja, Federal Capital Territory (FCT).     
--- we will try our best to fight corona virus in Nigeria - Chikwe Ihekweazu
The presidential Task force on COVID-19 has urged the director in government parastaters and private organizations to follow all the guidelines and the test to stop the corona virus.
Secretary General for the federal government of Nigeria (SGF) and the chairman presidential task force on COVID-19, Boss Mustapha said this in Abuja with the Journalist on Thursday.
Mr. Mustapha said this corona virus is powerful to endanger the lives of people and economy. 
He now urge the people of Nigeria to see all the steps that the committee took as a means to protect everyone in Nigeria. 
The minister for health in Nigeria, Osagie Ehanire one of the committee said: 
We urge all Nigerians to stay at home, and take care of their health, by following the line of program that the health sectors gave except for those that just returned from  that have the opportunity to get to their houses.
The director National center for disease control (NCDC) in Nigeria Chikwe Ihekweazu said:
Every day we send workers and materials to the state where covi-19 is discovered, and we are trying our best in a way that we will see that we eradicate it in Nigeria , though they need money, material and helpers, and some other things. 
This efforts are not easy, but we are assuring all the states in Nigeria that we will not relent in stopping corona virus in the states where it is discovered.
--- COVID-19: FG extends conditional cash transfers to Anambra, two other states
In a bid to lessen the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Nigerian government through the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, has extended its conditional cash transfer (CCT) to the most indigent and vulnerable in Anambra, Katsina and Nasarawa states. 
The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Umar Farouq  explained that the programme was part of the immediate palliatives promised by President Muhammadu Buhari to cushion the effect of the partial lockdown of the country as part of measures to contain the Covid-19. 
The conditional cash transfer payments in Anambra State, South Eastern Nigeria started with Anyamelum LGA (Wards Anaku 1 & 2; Omor 1 & 2; Umerum Umumbo; Igbakwu; Ifite Ogwari 1 & 2; Umueje and Omasi). 
Similar payments to more beneficiaries of the programme were carried out in three centers of Wamba East, Wayo and Nakere in Nasarawa State, North Central Nigeria. 
Also payments were made in eleven of the 34 local government areas of Katina State. 
The local government areas are Bakori, Bindawa, Baure, Batagarawa, Dandume and Ingawa,  Kaita, Mani, Musawa, Rimi and Kankara. 
--- COVID-19: President Buhari directs prompt payment of salaries
President Muhammadu Buhari has directed the Ministry of Finance and National Planning to promptly pay salaries of workers in the country. 
He gave the directive during a meeting with the Presidential Committee on the Impact of COVID-19 on the Nigerian economy at the Presidential Villa, Abuja on Thursday. 
The President also directed the ministry to ensure that critical infrastructure like roads and rails are protected and as much as possible, use local inputs so that the country retains value within its economy. 
Chairman of the committee and Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, said these while fielding questions from State House Correspondents after the meeting. 
Ahmed who heads the presidential committee stated that ”the President further directed the committee to ensure that measures that protect the poor and the vulnerable are in place.”  
Briefing She told Journalists that the committee briefed the President on current happenings around the world due to COVID-19 and the impact on the nation’s economy. 
She said: “Well, he has directed that we should make sure that salaries are paid, make critical infrastructures like roads, rails are protected, as much as possible use local inputs so that we retain value within our economy. 
And also make sure that we put in place measures that protect the poor and the vulnerable.” 
On the purpose of the meeting, she said, “This meeting was just to brief Mr. President as the situation we are in keeps evolving on a daily basis. 
As the health crisis gradually expands, affecting States and also the lockdown that has been ordered to help curtail expansion of the health crisis.   
“The consequences of the lockdown are the additional slowing down of the economy and the measures that we need to take to mitigate the negative consequences of the slow trade and businesses.” 
Another member of the committee, the Minister of State Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, said the economy is not in the best of shapes, due to COVID-19 and oil prices are collapsing every day, hence the need for the President to be constantly briefed. 
The Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, said the economy is not looking as simple as everybody thought it would be. 
He said: “The global economy naturally like we all know at this time will naturally suffer growth problems and may even lead to recession globally. 
So, we are trying to see what we can do as a country to rescue our own situation so we don’t go the direction many will go.  
“It is not going to be easy but we can only assure our people that we are on top of it and that we will resolve it and Nigerians will still be better for it.” 
Other members of the committee are the Minister of State, Budget and National Planning, Clement Agba and the Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mela Kyari. 
--- Customs boss commends officers on essential duties
The Comptroller-General of the Nigeria Customs, Colonel Hameed Ali has commended Officers and Men of the service who are on essential duties despite the risks in their respective locations as lockdown entered day three. 
Mr Ali said reports reaching the Headquarters from the Commands indicate that, Customs operatives have been rising to the challenge of their professional calling by keeping the Seaports functional. 
He advised the operatives to maintain person to person distancing, wash hands regularly, sanitise their hands and comply with all other recommendations by medical experts. 
He prayed for the quick recovery for those undergoing COVID-19 treatment and for the Almighty God to heal Nigeria and the world generally. 
--- COVID-19 lockdown: Nigeria Armed Forces denounces misleading viral videos
The Nigeria Defence Headquarters on Wednesday, said its attention has been drawn to some video clips circulating in the media with the intention of deliberately smearing the image of the Nigeria Army. 
The Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Major General John Enenche stated that the videos which were old clips of past incidences that took place in 2012 and 2013 respectively, were being used by some mischievous elements to mislead the public about military engagement towards lockdown declared by the Federal Government in some states to curtail the spread of COVID-19. 
According to John Enenche, the Nigerian Armed Forces sees those clips as calculated attempts to tarnish its professional integrity. 
The Armed Forces of Nigeria remains undaunted and would not be distracted from their constitutional role in ensuring the protection of Nigeria’s territorial integrity and securing the lives and property of the general public. 
--- COVID-19: Nigeria confirms 23 new cases
Nigeria has confirmed 23 new cases of the novel coronavirus also known as COVID-19. 
The new cases were confirmed in Lagos, FCT, Akwa Ibom, Kaduna and Bauchi. 
According to Nigerian Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, 9 of the cases were confirmed in Lagos, 7 in the FCT, 5 in Akwa Ibom, 1 in Kaduna and 1 in Bauchi State. 
This brings the total confirmed cases of Coronavirus in Nigeria to 174 with nine discharged and two deaths. 		
--- COVID-19: See as the federal capital territory was so quite
If it was a priest or an herbalist that gave a warning to all Nigerians that a disease is coming that will cause everybody to sit at home.
That a disease is coming that will cause business men to lock up their shops, that a disease is upcoming that will cause all that travel abroad because of headache or a brief illness refuse to go as usual, that they will sit at home, I’m so sure that all Nigerians will say the priest or the herbalist oracle does not a speak good thing.
But, God does as he pleases him, COVID-19 disease called corona virus enter Nigeria, all of us kept quit, this virus that respect not the rich, poor, even the virus does not regard its source, China.
One thing that is certain is that under any circumstances, Nigeria will succeed, Nigeria will be free from corona virus.
Its compulsory that she be free from corona virus.
When corona will leave Nigeria, all Nigerians should learn one or two lessons from it that there is no one too big for God to arrest or capture.
We all in Nigeria should learn a lesson that there is no place like home.
If we have equipped all our hospitals be it federal government hospitals  or the state government hospitals, all the health care center either small or the university teaching hospitals in Nigeria are standard, equivalent to all other hospitals abroad where the rich men go when they have a brief illness, if all  our hospitals are standard, the  problem and trouble of corona virus will be minimal in Nigeria. 
My advise is that we should all come together in cooperation to bridge all the gaps in Nigeria either on our hospitals or our economy that our nation may grow.
A word is enough to the wise, thanks so much.
--- Lockdown: the federal government start the sharing of twenty thousand naira in Abuja.
In a way to bring relief the people at the federal capital territory through the lockdown that the president Muhammadu Buhara announced, the government of Nigeria have starred the sharing of twenty thousand naira as palliative to those that lives in Kwali local government area.
The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Umar Farouq  said this when giving out the cash on Wednesday morning.
The media house in Nigeria said, about one hundred and ninety people benefited from twenty thousand in Kwali local government area.
Farouk said the beneficiaries usually take a cash of five thousand monthly and were given twenty thousand naira for four month payment.
She continued that five thousand people will benefit from the cash in Abuja.  
--- Nigerian Government further reduces PMS price to N123.50
The Nigerian Government has approved the further reduction of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) pump price to N123.50 per Litre. 
The Executive Secretary, Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency Abdulkadir Saidu, announced the reduction on Tuesday night, 
Saidu stated that the guiding price takes effect from April 1 2020, and shall apply at all retail outlets nationwide for the month of April, 2020. 
--- COVID-19 : Àwọn méjìlá míràn tún jẹyọ lórílẹ̀ èdè Nàíjíríà
The confirmed cases of COVID-19 have risen to 135 in Nigeria. 
On its official Twitter handle @NCDCgov, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, confirmed 4 new cases, 9 in Osun State and 1 in Edo State, 1 in Ekiti
--- COVID-19: President Buhari thanks individuals, companies for support
President Muhammadu Buhari has acknowledged with deep appreciation, the kind gestures of captains of industries, corporate entities, missionaries, music artistes and individuals who have consistently supported the fight at mitigating the COVID-19 pandemic ravaging the global economy. 
The President thanked the group of oil companies, who partnered with the Nigerian National Petroleum Cooperation (NNPC) to donate $30 million, while appreciating contributions from the All Progressives Congress National leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Dr Mike Adenuga, Mrs Folorunsho Alakija of Famfa Oil, and Dr Emeka Offor, who joined a list of other public-spirited Nigerians in contributing health and educational facilities. 
The President also welcomed the generous donations announced by Zenith Bank PLC, which was committed to the public health care system. He welcomed donations also from Keystone bank, First Bank Plc and the Senior Pastor of Dunamis International Gospel Centre, Dr Paul Enenche, and his wife, Dr Becky Enenche. 
President Buhari equally appreciated the efforts of Stallion Empowerment Initiative of the Stallion Group and the entertainment industry, particularly renowned musician, Innocent Idibia Tuface for their contributions. 
Repositioning health care 
The President assured Nigerians that the funds will be properly utilized to fight the spread of COVID-19 and reposition the health care system. 
He urged all intending donors to channel their contributions through the Presidential Task Force for the Control of the Coronavirus (COVID-19). 
President Buhari urged Nigerians to follow the guidelines provided by the Ministry of Health, State governments and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), whose officials have been toiling day and night to keep everyone in the country safe. 
He noted that the situation facing the country, and others across the world, would certainly need the financial, technical and material support of companies and individuals, and the collective efforts of Nigerians to bring the pandemic under control.
--- Covid-19: the committee will follow the guidelines before assisting during lockdown
The secretary General to the federal government, Boss Mustapha has said the committee will soon give the guidelines they will follow to assist.
President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the appointment of committee that will be in charge of the economy in Nigeria, which will be head by the vice president, Yemi Osinbajo. 
The Secretary General to the federal government , Boss Mustpha said this during the inauguration of the committee in Abuja.
The Secretary General also said the government appoint the committee to give the less privileged during the lockdown in Abuja, Lagos state and Ogun state so that it can stop the spread of COVID-19 in Nigeria.
We are just starting, we don’t know when the pandemic will be over, but I believe that we will start the program soon, the program of guidelines.
He the committee will soon announce the guidelines they will follow.
--- COVID-19 Lockdown: Governors pledge seamless movement of essential commodities
The Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) has pledged its commitment to ensuring the seamless movement of essential commodities throughout the country during the period of lockdown declared in some states. 
The forum made the pledge in a communiqué issued after its first teleconference meeting held on Sunday and signed by the NGF Chairman, Governor Kayode Fayomi of Ekiti State. 
The communiqué made available to reporters on Monday in Abuja noted that the governors through the teleconference meeting deliberated on the COVID-19 pandemic in the country. 
The communiqué read in part: “Governors are committed to ensuring that there is seamless movement of essential commodities throughout the country during this period of the lockdown. 
“Through the NGF Secretariat, a protocol for the movement of essential services will be developed and shared with all state governments. 
“To strengthen private-sector-led support for the COVID-19 pandemic, the NGF Secretariat will serve as the coordination mechanism by tracking the COVID-19 essential needs of all states including equipment for contact tracing/sample collection, diagnosis and treatment. 
The governors also agreed to hold weekly teleconference meetings to receive regular updates from all states and maintain a coordinated response to the pandemic. 
Fayemi briefed the governors on various state-level coordination with the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 and the private sector through the Food, Beverages and Pharmaceuticals Association led by the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN). 
The other private sector bodies included the MTN Foundation and the donor group led by Aliko Dangote and Herbert Wigwe. 
The communique stated that the governors also received an update from the Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, and the Director-General of the NCDC, Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, on the Federal Government’s efforts to stop the spread of COVID-19. 
It added that the duo also updated the governors on plans to increase the capacity of states to improve testing and care for COVID-19 cases. 
--- COVID-19: Chief of Staff to President Buhari speaks on his status
The Chief of Staff to President Buhari, Abba Kyari, says he feels well but will be transferred to Lagos for additional tests and observation following his testing positive to COVID-19. 
The chief of Staff who disclosed this Sunday via twitter @NGRPresident said he made his own care arrangements to avoid further burdening the health system that is already under much pressure. 
“I have made my own care arrangements to avoid further burdening the public health system, which faces so many pressures,” Kyari said. 
Kyari said he has feels well and has neither experienced high fever nor other symptoms associated with the virus. 
“Like many others that will also test positive, I have not experienced high fever or other symptoms associated this new virus and have been working from home. 
I hope to be back at my desk very soon.  
I have a team of young, professional, knowledgeable and patriotic colleagues, whose dedication has been beyond the call of duty, who continue to work seven days a week, with no time of the day spared.  
We will continue to serve the president and people of Nigeria, as we have for the past five years,” Kyari added. 
Statement by Chief of Staff to the President, on his health status: 
He’s stable & feels well —Transferring to Lagos for additional tests & observation — “I have made my own care arrangements to avoid further burdening the public health system, which faces so many pressures.” 
He thanked health workers who are working across the country who put their lives on the line for the citizens of Nigeria. He also praised Nigerians for looking out for the vulnerable in their midst. 
Kyari appealed for calm while advising Nigerians to observe proper hygiene, listen to advice from good authorities, ignore fake news and obey instructions on social distancing. 
--- COVID-19: those that tested positive for corona virus in Nigeria are now one hundred and eleven (111)
Center for disease control in Nigeria (NCDC) has announced that another fourteen people have tested positive for corona virus (COVID-19) in Nigeria. Nine (9) from Lagos state and five (5) from the federal capital territory, Abuja.
From half past nine (9:30) on 29th those that have corona virus are one hundred and eleven, with one death, but Lagos state is still leading with sixty (68) people infected. 
--- COVID-19: President Buhari orders lockdown of Lagos, Ogun and FCT
In a bid to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus also known as COVID-19, the Nigerian President, Muhammadu Buhari has ordered the total lockdown of Lagos State, Ogun State and the Federal Capital Territory. 
The President, who gave the order in a nationwide broadcast on Sunday evening, stated that the lockdown would take effect from 11pm on the 30th of March 2020. 
“Based on the advice of the Federal Ministry of Health and the NCDC, I am directing the cessation of all movements in Lagos and the FCT for an initial period of 14 days with effect from 11pm on Monday, 30th March 2020. 
This restriction will also apply to Ogun State due to its close proximity to Lagos and the high traffic between the two States”.  
“All citizens in these areas are to stay in their homes. Travel to or from other states should be postponed. 
All businesses and offices within these locations should be fully closed during this period,” he stated. 
President Buhari noted that Governors of Lagos and Ogun States as well as the Minister of the FCT have been notified. 
“Furthermore, heads of security and intelligence agencies have also been briefed”. 
He said his administration would use the containment period to identify, trace and isolate all individuals that have come into contact with confirmed cases. 
The Nigerian leader added that the order does not apply to hospitals and all related medical establishments as well as organisations in health care related manufacturing and distribution. 
“Furthermore, commercial establishments such as; food processing, distribution and retail companies; petroleum distribution and retail entities, power generation, transmission and distribution companies; and private security companies are also exempted” he clarified. 
He added that although the above mentioned establishments are exempted, access will be restricted and monitored. 
 “Workers in telecommunication companies, broadcasters, print and electronic media staff who can prove they are unable to work from home are also exempted”. 
--- We have 60-days fuel sufficiency – NNPC
Nigerian National petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has urged Nigerians not to engage in panic buying of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), as the country has adequate stock of the products to last for over 60-days. 
Mr Mele Kyari, Group Managing Director of the corporation, gave the assurance while briefing newsmen on Sunday in Abuja. 
Kyari assured that the NNPC had the support of all stakeholders to ensure adequate supply of petroleum products in the country. 
He said: “There is absolutely no scarcity anywhere; our supply is robust, we have fuel that will last this country even for 60-days if assuming we do not import any. 
“Of course people because of the pandemic, stay at home, may try to conserve fuel, there is no need to do this. 
He appealed to Nigerians not to flood fuel stations as there was no need for that. 
Commenting on National Association of Road Transport Owners (NARTO) order to petrol tankers drivers to vacate the depots, Kyari said that the corporation would continue to engage them. 
“No restrictions; as we speak now loading is going on, trucks are moving around, no action like that will come to fruition,’’ he added. 
--- President Buhari to address Nigerians on Sunday
President Muhammadu Buhari will broadcast to the nation today Sunday, March 29 at 7pm local time. 
Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina disclosed this in a statement. 
He advised television, radio and other electronic media outlets to hook up to the network services of the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) and Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria (FRCN) for the broadcast. 
Voice of Nigeria would also be live tweeting on our Twitter handle @voiceofnigeria. 
-- COVID-19: Ekiti Governor orders lockdown, shuts borders
Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti on Sunday announced a lockdown in the state, directing residents to stay at home from Monday. 
The governor in a broadcast imposed a ban on all commercial activities as well as intra state travels, except for those bordering on essential services. 
He said that anyone that violated the latest measures aimed at checking further spread of the coronavirus pandemic in the state, risked a six-month jail term. 
The governor expressed regrets that past measures adopted by him to curtail the virus were being brazenly ignored. 
He said: ”It is very disappointing that some of us have either been lukewarm, nonchalant or downright defiant in observing the simple but extremely effective preventive measures as well as maintaining social distancing to protect themselves from infection and curtail the spread of the virus in their communities. 
” While I acknowledge our resilient nature, incurable optimism and spiritual activism as a people, it is critical that we balance these with pragmatic and urgent actions that can ensure the safety of lives for our families and communities 
” If we do not take steps necessary to contain this virus, it has the potential to overwhelm our health infrastructure, cripple our economy and devastate Ekiti in unimaginable proportions. 
” As you are aware, the state is under significant financial constraints especially as a direct consequence of the impact of the coronavirus on the global economy and the price of crude oil that has gone down considerably. 
” So, we cannot afford a public health crisis. 
” It is therefore in urgent public interest that, I hereby, in pursuant to Section 8 of the Quarantine Act, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004 and the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) impose a curfew of movement in Ekiti . 
”The purpose of this curfew is to impose restrictions on the movement of persons and goods within Ekiti for an initial period of 14 days. 
”Therefore, effective from 1:59pm on Monday, March 30, 2020 until 11:59pm on Monday, April 13, 2020, there shall be restriction of movement across the length and breadth of Ekiti, with all our borders closed. 
”That is a full and total shutdown of Ekiti, and a 12-hour dusk to dawn curfew in Ekiti  from 7:00pm – 7:00 am. 
All Ekiti residents are hereby directed to stay at home 
”We are implementing the Quarantine Act to keep all Ekiti residents safe. So let me be clear. 
If you do not go home or stay home for at least 14 days as from Monday, 30 March, 2020, you can face serious fines or prison term. 
”During this period, movement between local governments areas is prohibited; movement between towns, villages and communities is also prohibited; every person shall be confined to the place where he or she ordinarily resides in Ekiti,” he said. 
He emphasised that all businesses and other entities should cease operations during this period except those involved in the provision of essential goods or services. 
”Markets, retail shops and shopping malls must be closed, except where essential goods are sold and with strict hygienic conditions to prevent the exposure of persons to COVID-19. 
”Religious gatherings like worship and prayer services, night vigils, house fellowships and NASFAT meetings; social gatherings like  funerals, weddings, family meetings and parties of any kind in night clubs, bars, beer joints; and political gatherings like. rallies, congresses, ward meetings, all of these are prohibited activities under these regulations. 
”Only gathering in respect of funeral will be allowed but the attendance shall be limited to 20 persons with no night vigil or party. 
”All boundaries of Ekiti are closed during this period, except for transportation of fuel, food and drugs and other essential goods. 
”All non-residents who arrive the state prior to, or after, the imposition of this restriction, and who remain in the state, must remain in their place of temporary residence in the state for the duration of the 14 days, as the case may be, and may be subjected to screening for COVID-19 and be quarantined or isolated if necessary. 
”All commuter transport services including bus services, taxi services, motor bikes (Okada) and tricycle services, are prohibited; except those for purposes of rendering essential services, obtaining essential goods, seeking medical attention, funeral services and to receive payment of social grants or food 
”Only those who are performing essential services will be allowed to move around, particularly health workers, but must be duly designated with an identity card by the head of their institutions. 
Fayemi clarified that only few category of individuals and institutions providing certain critical services were  exempted from the restrictions: 
They include members of the state Executive, Legislature and the Judiciary; 
The list also included persons in production, distribution and marketing of food and beverages, pharmaceuticals, medicine, paper and plastic packages, environmental and sanitation activities, staff of electricity, water, telecommunications, e-commerce and digital service providers. 
The rest were members of security agencies assigned on lawful duties; staff of banks and similar financial institutions and staff of fuel stations. 
”Any person who contravenes these regulations shall be guilty of an offence and, on conviction, liable to a fine or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding six months or to both  fine and imprisonment,”  the governor said. 
Fayemi, who said he was aware of the negative consequences of the new development on businesses and families, said palliatives were being worked out for residents, especially high risk and vulnerable citizens. 
--- COVID-19: Nigeria’s confirmed cases rise to 97
Nigeria’s confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus COVID-19 has risen to 97. 
Confirming the latest eight cases, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control explained that “As at 10:40 pm 28th March there are 97 confirmed cases of #COVID19 reported in Nigeria with 1 death”. 
“Currently; Lagos- 59 FCT- 16 Ogun- 3 Enugu- 2 Ekiti- 1 Oyo- 7 Edo- 2 Bauchi- 2 Osun-2 Rivers-1 Benue- 1 Kaduna- 1” 
Eight new cases of #COVID19 have been reported in Nigeria; 2 in FCT, 4 in Oyo, 1 in Kaduna and 1 in Osun State 
As at 10:40 pm 28th March there are 97 confirmed cases of #COVID19 reported in Nigeria with 1 death. 
--- COVID-19: Nigerian President orders closure of air, land borders
In a bid to curtail the spread of the deadly Coronavirus, the Nigerian President, Muhammadu Buhari has directed the immediate closure of Nigeria’s International Airports and Land Borders for four weeks. 
The President who made this known via his official Twitter handle @MBuhari on Thursday night, noted that the move was to enable the Government “put up the appropriate policies, processes and infrastructure to cope with suspected and confirmed cases at home, without risking a compounding of the situation with more imported cases”. 
The President however regretted the inconvenience caused by flight and travel restrictions to Nigerians abroad who want to return home adding that “it is necessary for the greater good, and I thank you all for your understanding and cooperation”. 
“I have also directed that only cargo vessels that have been at sea for more than 14 days be allowed to dock in our ports, after the crew have been tested and confirmed disease-free by the Port Health Authorities”. 
“This 14-day restriction however does not apply to vessels carrying oil and gas products as by their nature, there is minimal human contact,” he explained. 
President Buhari also suspended the movement of commuter trains to limit the spread of the virus to other parts of the country. 
Intervention Fund President Buhari also ordered the immediate release of a 10 billion Naira grant to Lagos State, which he said remains the epicentre of the Covid-19 outbreak in Nigeria. 
“This grant will enable Lagos increase its capacity to control and contain the outbreak, while also supporting other States with capacity-building,” he explained. 
The President also ordered the immediate release of a 5 billion Naira special intervention fund to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to “equip, expand and provide personnel to its facilities and laboratories across the country”. 
“I have directed the NCDC to draft all its recent retirees back into service to beef up our manpower as we respond to the pandemic”. 
“Furthermore, all NCDC staff and experts who are away on training or international assignments are to return immediately,” he directed. 
Effective Response Nigerian President noted that the Nigerian Air Force is already making its fleet available to the Presidential Task Force on Covid-19, to enable a better coordinated and more effective response across the country. 
“Already the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) is conducting an evacuation mission to bring back some of our specialists in Central Africa, to enable them support the national response,” he added. 
Fiscal Measures He commended the monetary policy authorities for their financial intervention to support entrepreneurs and companies as the country goes through “this difficult time”. 
The President noted that the government is also looking at fiscal measures to minimise the negative impact of this pandemic on the livelihood of millions of Nigerians. 
“As you are aware we have begun the process of reviewing the federal budget. We shall communicate our fiscal interventions once the budget review process is concluded”. 
“In the meantime, I have directed the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, to work with the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), to ensure that all production of essential items such as food, medical and pharmaceutical products continues unhindered”. 
Knowledge & Support President Buhari stated that the government was already engaging international friends and partners to share knowledge and to seek their support in response to the pandemic. 
“We are grateful for the show of support thus far – we have already started receiving goods and supplies intended to help us scale up our efforts”. 
“Let me specially thank and commend all of the hard and heroic work being done by our medical personnel, the NCDC, Port Health Authorities, Security Agencies, State Governments, and all ad-hoc staff and volunteers”. 
Panic & Misinformation President Buhari urged all Nigerians to be mindful of those who seek to spread panic and misinformation, and sow confusion at this time. 
“We must all pay attention only to the relevant government agencies working day and night to make accurate and useful information available to the public”. 
“I will also ask all of us to strictly obey all public health guidelines and instructions issued by the Federal and State health authorities, regarding personal hygiene and social distancing”. 
“These guidelines will be updated from time to time as new information and treatments are obtained”. 
“In the meantime, I want to assure all Nigerians that the Federal Government remains committed to protecting all Nigerians. 
We seek your full support and cooperation as we go through this very difficult time. 
Together we will triumph over this pandemic”. 
--- COVID-19: Nigeria confirms 14 new cases
The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has confirmed 14 new cases of the novel coronavirus also known as COVID-19. 
Confirming the cases via its official Twitter handle, the NCDC noted that  one of the cases was confirmed in FCT, one in Bauchi and 12 in Lagos, 
“Of the 14, six were detected on a vessel, three are returning travellers and two are close contacts of confirmed cases,” the NCDC explained. 
This brings the total number of confirmed cases in Nigeria to 65, with three discharged and one death. 
We noticed an error in our update at 8:35pm. It should be: 
14 new cases of #COVID19 have been confirmed in Nigeria: 1 in FCT, 1 IN BAUCHI & 12 in Lagos 
Of the 14, 6 were detected on a vessel, 3 are returning travellers & 2 are close contacts of confirmed cases pic.twitter.com/Pe6owiXBKB — NCDC (@NCDCgov) March 26, 2020
--- COVID-19: VP Osinbajo tests negative
Nigeria’s Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, has tested negative to the coronavirus. 
This followed tests conducted to check his status. 
Spokesman to the Vice President, Laolu Akande, confirmed this in response to enquiries from the media. 
In his response, Akande said: “Good morning Sirs and Ma: I have been inundated with calls on whether indeed the VP had undergone a COVID-19 test and the outcome. 
Yes, he has and the result is negative. An official tweet would follow. Thanks” 
Akande tweeted on Tuesday that the Vice President had isolated himself and was working from home. 
--- COVID-19: VP Osinbajo goes into self-isolation
Nigeria’s Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, has gone into self-isolation in keeping with the advice of the National Centre for Disease Control,  NCDC. 
Spokesman to the Vice President, Laolu Akande, shared this on Tuesday via his twitter handle @akandeoj. 
Akande said: “VP Osinbajo yesterday (Monday) at the office conducted his meetings via video conferencing while observing social distancing. 
“Today, he continues his work from the home office, as he is in self-isolation in accordance with NCDC protocols.” 
Akande did not give further explanation about those who might have come into contact with the vice president before he decided to isolate himself. 
Vice President Osinbajo yesterday at the office conducted his meetings via video conferencing, while observing social distancing. 
Today, he continues his work from the home office, as he is in self-isolation in accordance with NCDC protocols.  
On Monday, Prof Osinbajo was to inaugurate the National Traffic Radio at the headquarters of the Federal Road Saftey Corps, FRSC, Wuse, Abuja. 
It was cancelled, but no official reason was given for the development. 
