---President Buhari arrives in New York for UN General Assembly
President Muhammadu Buhari is in New York, to attend the 74th session of the United Nations General Assembly UNGA. 
The President, who arrived in New York in the late hours of Sunday, was received on arrival by Nigeria’s Ambassador to the US, Justice Sylvanus Adiewere, Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyama and that of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire among others. 
President Buhari is scheduled to be the 5th to deliver his address at the UNGA general debate, which starts on Tuesday. 
The President is expected to underscore his administration’s commitment to building on the achievements of its three-point agenda following the renewal of his electoral mandate by majority of Nigerians. 
He will also reaffirm Nigeria’s position on salient global issues. 
The President’s participation at this year’s gathering of world leaders is particularly significant as it coincides with Nigeria’s Presidency of UNGA. 
The theme for UNGA74 is, ‘Galvanizing Multilateral Efforts for Poverty Eradication, Quality Education, Climate Action and Inclusion.’ 
---First Ebola case recorded in DRC city of Goma
The first case of Ebola in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo city, Goma, was discovered on Sunday, officials said, raising concerns the virus could spread quicker in a densely populated area close to the Rwandan border. 
Goma, a lakeside city of 1 million people, is more than 350 km south of where the second-largest Ebola outbreak on record was first detected a year ago. 
But the haemorrhagic fever has gradually spread south, infecting nearly 2,500 people and killing more than 1,600. 
How Ebola spread to Goma 
The patient was a priest who became infected during a visit to the town of Butembo, 200 km north of Goma, where he interacted with Ebola patients, Congo’s health ministry said in a statement. 
He developed symptoms last week before taking a bus to Goma on Friday. When he arrived in Goma on Sunday he went to a clinic where he tested positive for Ebola. 
“Due to the speed with which the patient has been identified and isolated, as well as the identification of all bus passengers from Butembo, the risk of spreading to the rest of the city of Goma remains low,” the ministry said. 
Goma has been preparing for the arrival of Ebola for a year, setting up hand-washing stations and making sure motorcycle riders do not share helmets. 
But in more rural areas, the virus has been hard to contain. Local mistrust of health officials and militia violence have hobbled containment efforts, and caused the number of new cases to spike. 
Ebola causes diarrhea, vomiting and haemorrhagic fever and can be spread through bodily fluids. 
An epidemic between 2013 and 2016 killed more than 11,300 people in West Africa. 
WHO responds 
The first case of Ebola in Democratic Republic of Congo’s eastern city of Goma is a potential game-changer in the scale of the outbreak, World Health Organization Chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said. 
Tedros said he was hopeful that there would be no further spread of the disease in the city, but he was convening the WHO’s emergency committee to decide if the outbreak now constituted an international health emergency. 
— World Health Organization (WHO) 
An Ebola Treatment Centre in Goma, DRC, has been operational since February, and the person is now receiving care there. As part of the preparedness, 3000 #healthworkers have been vaccinated in this city alone. 
---NMA blame States for poor state of Primary Healthcare
The Nigeria Medical Association (NMA), has blamed the state governments for the poor implementation of Primary Healthcare programmes in the country. 
Dr Francis Faduyile, the President of NMA, told the press in Abuja, that the poor handling of primary healthcare was due to negligence and poor commitment on the part of state governors. 
He stated that the state government had largely abandoned the state health system, stressing that they had allowed it to suffer serious setback. 
According to him, the state government are in charge of primary healthcare centres and they are in charge of the secondary healthcare institutions and the state government had largely not been up and doing in this regard. 
He said that the NMA had increased its advocacy and would open up discussions with the state government to see what could be done to remedy the embarrassing situation. 
“We are hoping to go to the Governors’ Forum when next they have a meeting to draw attention and address concerns. 
Primary health care is very important in rectifying the health situation in the country.” 
Faduyile noted that the Federal Government should take action on the issue of brain drain that could help in salvaging the health sector. 
According to the NMA president, we have observed that the governments have not performed well in the health sector. 
Faduyile said that as part of measures to salvage the health sector, the NMA had taken a step to support Community Health Insurance Scheme. 
He said that the association would support states that were forming their health insurance scheme, urging them to seek for guidelines from NMA to do it the right way. 
---Nigeria reiterates commitment to promote human rights
The Nigerian government says the use of torture to extract confession or as punishment to alleged victims of crime will not be condoned. 
Solicitor General of the Federation and Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Dayo Akpata stated this in Abuja, at an event to mark the 2019 United Nations International Day in Support of Victims of Torture. 
Psychological trauma Mr. Akpata stated that the right to freedom from torture is not negotiable. 
The Permanent Secretary said that millions of people, family and groups around the world suffers severe physical and psychological trauma as a result of torture. 
“Every individual living in Nigeria is entitled to respect for the dignity of human person hence, nobody should be subjected to torture or inhumane treatment,” he said. 
According to him, “Nigeria is a signatory to the UN convention on torture that prohibits the use of torture. 
 “The Nigerian laws empowered the Ministry to ensure the implementation of the act against torture.” 
Mr. Akpata was represented by Mr. Hamza Ahmed at the event. 
---VP Osinbajo to meet with Mike Pence, others in the US
Vice President Yemi Osinbajo is visiting the United States where he will be meeting with his US counterpart, Mr. Mike Pence, and other key groups and interests in the country. 
A statement from the Office of the Vice President said “ahead of his meeting with the US Vice President in Washington D.C on Wednesday, Professor Osinbajo will be meeting with the Council on Foreign Relations on Monday in New York. 
“In his meeting with his American counterpart, VP Osinbajo would be discussing matters of mutual interests between Nigeria and the US, while he would be speaking on Nigeria’s economic prospects and other related matters in his meeting with the Council on Foreign Relations.” 
The Vice President left for the US on Saturday afternoon and is expected back in Abuja on Thursday. 
---Muhammad-Bande becomes UN General Assembly President
Nigeria’s Permanent Representative to the United Nations, Ambassador Tijjani Muhammad-Bande has emerged President of the 74th UN General Assembly. 
Muhammad-Bande, the sole candidate for the position, was elected through acclamation at the 87th plenary meeting of the Assembly in New York on Tuesday, June 4. 
He is the second Nigerian to hold the office after Joseph Garba, a retired military officer and diplomat, who led the organ between 1989 and 1990. 
He will be inaugurated in September 2019. 
---Nigerians in diaspora to advocate for diaspora voting
Nigerians in the diaspora have been urged to advocate for the implementation of a law to allow for diaspora voting. 
The Chairman, Diasporas Commission in Nigeria and the Senior Special Adviser to President Muhammad Buhari, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, made the call at a cocktail with a delegation of APC Diaspora members, in Abuja, Nigeria. 
” thank you so much for coming all the way home because you want to be part of President Buhari’s inauguration. 
You all worked hard for him to succeed and by the grace of God and with determination, the President spoke to you yesterday, he is not going to let all of you down.  
” I think one of the greatest goals we all must achieve is the Diaspora voting. 
And we all have to work together to make it happen.” She said. 
“I am going to appeal to all of you, as the 9th Assembly comes in, let’s start immediately, let’s move to Parliaments and lobby them to ensure that Nigerians in diaspora can vote, so make it a priority”. She noted. 
“now you have a Diaspora Commission, work with the Commission to ensure this happens, if smaller counties can do it, I see no reason why Nigerians can’t vote”. She noted. 
” it’s going to be a tough battle, but we need to ensure that Diaspora voting becomes a reality”. She emphasised. 
---President Buhari heads to Saudi Arabia for OIC Summit
President Muhammadu Buhari has left Abuja to attend the Summit of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, OIC in Makkah, Saudi Arabia. 
The 14th session of the Summit Conference of the OIC, scheduled to hold on Friday, May 31, will be hosted by King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud and attended by Heads of State and Governments of Member States. 
According to the OIC secretariat, the summit to be convened under the theme, “Makkah al-Mukarramah Summit: Hand in Hand toward the Future,” seeks to develop a unified stance on events in the Islamic world. 
President Buhari is expected to address the forum and underscore the need for member countries to unite and work together to combat common challenges such as terrorism and violent extremism. 
---Nigeria seeks U.S. assistance to tackle unemployment
Nigeria is seeking help from the United States of America to address the issue of unemployment in the country. 
The Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, William Alo, says Nigeria needs assistance from the U.S in “tackling the unemployment challenges bedeviling the country.” 
Receiving a delegation from the U.S. Department of Labour, led by Kurt Petermeyer, who is the Regional Administrator, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Mr Alo said that assistance from the U. S. to upgrade the skill acquisition centres in the country would be of immense benefit to Nigeria, as it would enhance job creation. 
---President Buhari continues religious obligation in Makkah
President Muhammadu Buhari arrived in Makkah, Saudi Arabia, from the city of Madinah where he began the initial leg of his Umrah engagements in the Kingdom. 
After the evening prayer in the Holy Prophet’s Mosque, the President was ushered to the grave of Prophet Mohammed where he said prayers for the nation, his family and himself. 
He was seen off at the Prince Mohammed Bin Abdulaziz Madina International Airport by the Governor of the Madinah Province, Prince Faisal Bin Salman Bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud. 
The President was welcomed at Makkah by the Regional Governor, Prince Khalid Bin Faisal Al-Saud. 
Also at hand to receive him were the Nigerian Ambassador to Saudi Arabia, Justice Isa Dodo (rtd), the Director General of the National Intelligence Agency, Ambassador Ahmed Rufa’i Abubakar and officials of the Nigerian Consulate in Jeddah. 
After the reception, he immediately went ahead to commence the Umrah rites Friday evening. 
---President Buhari will be in Saudi Arabia for Umrah rites.
President of Nigeria Muhammadu Buhari has received a letter of invitation from the King of Saudi Arabia, Salman Bin Abdulaziz, for Umrah rites (lesser pilgrimage) in that nation.
Part of those that will go with the President to Saudi Arabia are his special assistance, the President will land in Saudi Arabia on Thursday 16th of May.
---Nigeria, Angola to strengthen sub-regional security
Nigeria and Republic of Angola have agreed to work together to enhance peace, stability and security in Africa particularly in the West and Central African region. 
The two countries agreed on this in a communiqué issued at the end of a meeting between Foreign Affairs Minister, Geoffrey Onyeama and Angolan Minister of External Relations, Manuel Augusto, on Thursday in Abuja. 
The communiqué was jointly signed by Augusto and Onyeama, 
The two countries stressed the need to deepen political, socio-economic and cultural collaboration in furtherance of the developmental agenda of both countries and the African continent. 
Both countries acknowledged the global economic crisis, the challenges of climate change and terrorism. 
They agreed on the imperative for concerted collective action to combat effectively, all threats to the sustainable development of the two countries and the African continent. 
The two countries agreed to leverage on the bilateral relations between them and intensify collaboration towards enhancing the level of peace, stability and security of the subregions. 
---Senate confirms Abike Dabiri-Erewa as pioneer Diaspora Commission boss
The Nigerian Senate has confirmed the appointment of Abike Dabiri-Erewa as the pioneer Chairman/Chief Executive of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission following her nomination by President Muhammadu Buhari. 
Mrs. Dabiri-Erewa, a former member of the House of Representatives, is presently the Senior Special Assistant on Foreign Affairs and Diaspora to President Buhari.
“The committee, after a critical scrutiny of the curriculum vitae and other accompanying documents of the nominee, and having been satisfied about her integrity, exposure, suitability, competence and experience in politics and public service, found Hon. Abike Dabiri-Erewa as fit and proper person for appointment as chairman/chief executive officer of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission”, she said.
She said Dabiri-Erewa was qualified to occupy the position having been screened by the committee in accordance with the provisions of the nation’s Constitution. 
Senator Oko added that the appointee holds Bachelor of Arts (English) in 1983; post graduate degree (Mass Communication) in 1986 while she also obtained a professional certificate from John Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, United States in June 2002. 
---Cyclone slams Indian temple town after people flee homes
A cyclone barrelled into eastern India on Friday, bringing down trees and power lines and “extensively” damaging the tourist town of Puri, but there were no early reports of casualties with a million people evacuated before it made landfall. 
Tropical Cyclone Fani, the strongest to hit India in five years, spent days building up power in the northern reaches of the Bay of Bengal before it struck the coast of the state of Odisha at around 8 a.m.
---One dead, several injured in Venezuela crisis
A woman was shot dead and dozens injured in the Venezuelan capital Caracas on Wednesday, in clashes between opposition supporters and pro-government forces. 
Opposition leader Juan Guaidó called for those responsible for the death of a 27-year-old woman to be found. 
He urged public employees to act on Thursday, saying the stoppages would lead to a general strike. 
Mr Guaidó in January declared himself Venezuela’s interim leader, and he has been recognised by more than 50 countries including the US, UK and most Latin America nations. 
The president dismissed suggestions he had been ready to flee the country and accused the US of directing an attempted coup. Those involved would be punished, he said. 
---Nigeria-UK Economic Development Forum holds in Abuja
Nigeria’s Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, says investor-interest is on the rise in Nigeria now.
The Vice President disclosed this when he spoke at the first Nigeria-UK Economic Development Forum (EDF), hosted by the Federal Government at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. 
The Economic Development Forum was signed in August 2018 by President Muhammadu Buhari and Prime Minister Theresa May in London as a platform to foster economic and development ties between Nigeria and the United Kingdom. 
According to the Vice President, “we have seen increased investor interest in Nigeria between 2017 and 2018. 
---President Buhari directs AGF to intervene in Zainab’s case
President Muhammadu Buhari has directed Mr Abubakar Malami, the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice to immediately intervene in the case of Zainab Aliyu, the student, incriminated in drug related matters and being detained by the Saudi Arabia authorities. 
In a statement issued in Abuja on Monday by Abdur-Rahman Balogun, Media aide to Hon. Abike Dabiri-Erewa, SSA to the President on Diaspora Affairs said that the President gave the directive two weeks ago when the matter was brought to his attention. 
“President Muhammadu Buhari gave the directive immediately the matter was brought to his attention about two weeks ago. 
“My office has been working with the AGF as well as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in that regard”. 
The Presidential aide assured that progress was being made in Zainab case, along with two others in similar circumstances in Saudi Arabia. 
Dabiri Erewa said that Zainab, though detained, has not been put on trial by the Saudi Arabia government. And with the hard evidence that those who implicated her have been arrested, a strong legal case is being made to the Saudi authorities 
JAMB conducts foreign based exams in seven countries
The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board, JAMB has conducted a foreign based examination for Nigerian candidates abroad and citizens of other nationalities who wants to study in Nigeria. 
The Board said the examination was conducted to give equal opportunity to Nigerians in Diaspora and foreigners who are desirous of acquiring qualitative Tertiary education in Nigeria. 
The examination was conducted in Ghana, United Kingdom, Cameroon, Benin Republic, Cöte d’Ivoire South Africa and Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. 
The board made this known in its weekly bulletin, released to the media, by its Head of Media, Dr Fabian Benjamin. 
According to the board, “Over 200 candidates took the UTME examination that held simultaneously on Saturday, 27th April, 2019 in all the aforementioned centres” 
“The board wishes to state emphatically that the results of the 2019 UTME have not been released.” 
It urged the public, particularly parents and candidates, to be wary of dubious elements and disregard any overtures made by anybody touting their power or influence to inflate any candidate’s score. 
 “The Board will make it public when the results are ready” the board said. 
Security operatives have picked up some of these nefarious characters and they are on the trail of others still at large,” it added. 
US express satisfaction in partnership with Nigeria to end Malaria
The United States government says it is satisfied with its partnership with Nigeria and the support towards the fight against Malaria. 
The US Ambassador to Nigeria, W. Stuart Symington stated this in a statement to mark World Malaria day with the theme: ‘‘Zero Malaria Starts with Me.” 
Ambassador Symington also saluted all Nigeria’s health champions ranging from health workers to mothers, pharmacists to drivers, journalists to researchers, teachers to warehouse managers and all those working to end malaria. 
Ambassador Symington noted that as a global community, they have achieved remarkable success towards the elimination of the disease. 
---President Buhari demands more respect for farmers
President Muhammadu Buhari says a top priority of his administration is to ensure that the efforts of hardworking Nigerian farmers are respected. 
The President said it is in this regard that he directed the Ministry of Agriculture and the Central Bank of Nigeria to bypass the knotty issue of collateral which he described as “a terrible colonial legacy,” so that farmers will get easy access to capital. 
End to Smuggling 
President Buhari also identified smuggling as a threat to domestic agricultural production and processing, and promised to continue to fight the menace with all means available to government. 
The President gave the assurance that in addition to the focus of his administration on security, economy and the war against corruption, the new administration in his second term will pay greater attention to education and health. 
“I understand our problems. I am acutely aware of my duty to my God and country. I will continue to do my best,” he told the support group. 
Earlier, the leader of the group, which is mostly made up of scholars and professionals, Dr Arabo Ibrahim Bayo, said they came together on the basis of a shared passion for the country’s development, and in the firm belief that President Buhari represents the best in terms of leadership that Nigeria can offer. 
The group further pledged support to the President for a formidable and enduring legacy. 
---Nigeria calls for safer digital world
President Muhammadu Buhari has called on world leaders to come up with proposals to create a digital world that is accessible, inclusive and safe to all. 
In his keynote speech at the 2019 Annual Investment Meeting (AIM) in Dubai on Monday, President Buhari said a certain level of regulation was needed to preserve the integrity of the digital economy. 
The theme of the summit is: ‘Mapping the Future of Foreign Direct Investment: Enriching World Economies through Digital Globalization.’’ 
Acknowledging that digital globalisation is transforming the world almost every day with innovations and transformative ideas, the Nigerian leader cautioned that the cyber world would remain a constant threat if left unregulated. 
The President decried the use of the cyberspace to manipulate elections, subvert the democratic rights of citizens as well as propagate violence. 
President Buhari, therefore, called for collective efforts led by both public and private sector leaders to address the emerging threats of digital globalisation. 
---Indonesia Landslides: at least 15 killed after year of disasters
Indonesian rescue teams were searching for victims of a series of landslides that killed at least 15 people on New Year Day, officials said, after a year of natural disasters killed thousands. 
At least 20 people were missing after landslides during heavy rain buried 30 houses in Sukabumi regency, West Java. 
“Loose soil is a danger to rescue teams that are working in the field,” said disaster mitigation agency spokesman Sutopo Purwo Nugroho. 
Heavy rain had forced rescuers to suspend the search on Tuesday. 
Indonesia is a disaster-prone archipelago that in 2018 suffered its deadliest year in over a decade in a series of earthquakes and tsunamis in different regions killed more than 3,000 people. 
---Korea donates $500,000 to displaced persons in Nigeria
The United Nations World Food Programme, (WFP) has welcomed a contribution of 500,000 US Dollars from the Republic of Korea aimed at providing one month of food assistance for about 125,000 internally displaced persons in Borno, Adamawa and Yobe States, northeast Nigeria. 
The Korean Ambassador to Nigeria Major General (Rtd) In-tae Lee, said Korean Government has been making efforts to address the needs of vulnerable people, which was why they are supporting internally displaced persons in Nigeria. 
 He said Korea stands ready to fight against malnutrition and poverty, joining hands with the people of Nigeria. 
The World Food Programme (WFP) Representative in Nigeria, Myrta Kaulard, applauded the gesture saying it would go a long way in sustaining the momentum of WFP’s response in Nigeria. 
---The Yoruba section of Voice of Nigeria (VON) started broadcasting in Abuja.
Voice of Nigeria says the Yoruba section has started broadcasting in Abuja.
The director of the Yoruba section in Abuja Abiodun Popoola told people that a lot of programs have been specially arranged for the enjoyment of the loved once throughout the nation.
He continued that the interest of our listeners are paramount to us, this is the why the authority of the broadcasting of Nigeria, voice of Nigeria began broadcasting from Abuja.
Likewise we have arrayed different programs for the enjoyment of our listeners most especially Africa.
“Ewe, who is the director of engineering in Yoruba section said as the yoruba section have started broadcasting from Abuja will make the listeners of Voice of Nigeria from abroad will hear them clearly. 
He said nothing as good as making people listening to Voice of Nigeria happy to listen the more.
Part of the workers that will partake in the programs are Mrs Aderonke Osundiya, Tobi Sangotola and Maryam Yusuf.
Listen to Voice of Nigeria on 31m 969khz frequency from 11am to 11:45am and in the evening from 5:15pm to 5:30pm.   
---Vice-President to participate in Africa-Europe forum in Austria
Nigeria’s Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo will be participating in the Africa-Europe High Level Forum with other African and European Heads of States or Government holding in Vienna, Austria on Monday, December 17, and Tuesday, December 18. 
A press release from the Office of the Vice President said that Professor Osinbajo would at the forum, hosted by the Austrian government on behalf of the European Union and the African Union, be speaking on the forum’s theme ‘Taking cooperation to the digital age’. 
The High-Level Forum will promote innovation and digitalisation according to the organizers in the EU and AU, “as important enablers of our future development, so that everyone can benefit from the ongoing digital transformation.” 
The forum aims at assessing “how current partnerships between Africa and Europe contribute to this goal, complementing the ongoing implementation of the joint declaration of the 2017 Abidjan Summit between the African Union and the European Union, which, among other things, highlighted the importance of unlocking the potential of the digital economy for Africa and Europe. 
It also aims at contributing to the Africa-Europe Alliance for Sustainable Investment and Jobs.” 
During his trip to Vienna, Prof. Osinbajo would hold a town-hall meeting with the Nigerian community in Austria; and also attend several bilateral meetings with European government leaders, including the Prime Minister of Czech Republic, Andrej Babis; Prime Minister of Finland, H.E. Juha Petri Sipilä; the Federal Chancellor of Austria, His Excellency, Sebastian Kurz; and the UK Minister for Africa, Harriet Baldwin. 
Prof. Osinbajo would also meet with top officials of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. 
The Vice President left Abuja on Sunday night and is expected back on Tuesday.
---President Buhari pays tribute to Holocaust victims
President Muhammadu Buhari has visited the Auschwitz-Birkenau Memorial and Museum in Oświęcim, Poland, where he paid tribute to Holocaust victims. 
After an hour and 10 minutes guided tour of the Museum, devoted to the memory of the victims who died at both camps during World War II, President Buhari penned a hand-written tribute in the visitor’s book, quoting Shakespeare’s ‘Julius Caesar: 
”The evil that men do lives after them; the good is oft interred with their bones.”   
The President also laid a wreath at Block II of the museum, known as the ‘‘Death block.’’  
According to an epitaph in the Block: ”Male and female prisoners from all parts of the camp complex were held in this building…following brutal interrogations, they were in most cases sentenced to death by shooting.” 
Shortly before leaving the Museum, President Buhari while fielding questions from State House Correspondents traveling with him, described those fanning embers of discord in Nigeria as” illiterates and ignorant.” 
The President is on Day Four of his visit to Poland, where he had attended the opening of the UN Climate Change Conference in Katowice, delivered his national address at the 12-day meeting of COP24, met several world leaders and visited the impressive Nigerian pavilion at the climate summit. 
The President had attended a town-hall meeting with Nigerians in Poland, a day after his arrival in the country. 
---Nigeria condoles with US on death of George Bush
President Muhammadu Buhari has joined world leaders in mourning the death of former President of United States, George H.W. Bush, who lived a life of service to country and humanity. 
President Buhari sent his condolences to the government and people of the United States, family of the 41st President and all political associates of the great leader, whose legacies continue to inspire and attract encomiums across the world. 
The President believes the passing of George H.W. Bush is a loss to the entire world, not just America, especially the many people he inspired. 
President Buhari extols the late President’s love for his family and country, which remains legendary as clearly seen in the way his children have taken up leadership roles and are steadily breeding new generation of great thinkers and leaders. 
The President prays for God’s comfort on the mourning nation, the family of the nonagenarian, and a peaceful rest for his soul. 
---Nigeria to produce festivals compendium to boost Tourism
The Ministry of Culture and Tourism in Nigeria says it will soon produce a compendium of the festivals across the country as part of efforts to boost tourism and showcase the country’s diverse cultures. 
Minister of Information and Culture, Mr. Lai Mohammed, said this in Istanbul, Turkey, while speaking at the ongoing 3rd UNWTO/UNESCO World Conference on Tourism and Culture, jointly organised by the two UN agencies. 
He said with more than 365 festivals across Nigeria, the country can organise one festival per day all year round, thus boosting domestic and international tourism. 
Different Festivals Mr. Mohammed said Nigeria’s ethnic groups are rooted in their cultures, which they showcase through different festivals like Durbar, New Yam Festival, Eyo and Masquerades, just to mention a few. 
He said governments at all levels in Nigeria are striving hard to encourage the festivals in their domains, while the Nigerian government is providing the enabling environment to showcase the various festivals. 
The Minister said the Abuja Carnival was particularly designed to enable the 36 States of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory to showcase the country’s cultural diversity which he described as a source of unity among the country’s ethnic groups. 
He said festivals are not just for entertainment but major contributors to job creation and economic development. 
More than 30 Ministers of Culture and Tourism from around the world are attending the three-day conference. 
---WANEP, AU conduct training on election conflict prevention
Ahead of Nigeria’s 2019 General Election, the West Africa Network for Peace building, the African Union and ECOWAS have trained about 80 people from civil society organisations on conflict monitoring, aimed at preventing conflicts within the election period. 
The organisation says the training, which brought participants from all 36 states of Nigeria and Abuja. 
It is part of a broader election monitoring, management and mitigation project, designed to mitigate election violence in the forthcoming election. 
The West Africa Network for Peace (WANEP) building says it considers the capacity building of those likely to be engaged as community and state monitors an important assignment because Nigeria has entered a critical phase of election process in the midst of unfolding skirmishes in the political arena.  
Against this development, the Executive Director of the organisation, Dr. Chukwuemeka Eze, said the three organisations had instituted a project to monitor and analyse situations to mitigate and develop a response platform to any likely violence, during election. 
“WANEP, ECOWAS/AU developed election specific indicators and contextualized online system for constant monitoring and reporting. 
It will also provide analytical reports highlighting prioritized areas of risks of violence and make recommendations to key national and zonal influencers that respond to election threats such as the Independent Electoral Commission, Nigeria Police, Jama’atu Nasril Islam, Christian Association of Nigeria, Ministry of Internal Affairs, National Peace Committee,” Dr. Eze said. 
President Buhari refutes claims he was cloned
President Muhammmadu Buhari has for the first time refuted the rumour of him being cloned, saying he is the real Buhari. 
He refuted the claims on Sunday in Poland, during a parley with members of the Nigerian community in Poland. 
A Nigerian residing in Poland wanted to know if he was the real Buhari or the much talked about Jibril from Sudan, at the town hall meeting in Krakow on Sunday evening. 
President Buhari said a lot of people had hoped he was dead during the period of his ill health. 
He described the sponsors of the rumours about his person as “ignorant and irreligious.” 
According to him:“A lot of people had hoped that l died during my ill health. 
I will soon celebrate my 76th birthday. 
The meeting afforded the Nigerian leader an opportunity to interact with Nigerians living in Poland, which was the President’s first official engagement, ahead of the Conference of the Parties (COP24) of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), taking place from December 2-4. 
At the meeting, the President expressed his happiness with the report by the Nigerian Ambassador to Poland, Eric Adagogo Bell-Gam. 
On the economy, the President said Nigeria has virtually stopped the importation of food, especially rice. 
“I am trying to save a lot of money, l only go out when it is necessary. My priority is to secure Nigeria.”
“I am always upset when l see little children taking bowls about begging for food. 
---Taliban kill at least 22 Afghan police in ambush
At least 22 police were killed in a Taliban ambush in Afghanistan’s western province of Farah late on Sunday, officials said, adding to the growing casualty toll on Afghan security forces fighting an increasingly confident insurgency. 
Police spokesman Mohebullah Moheb confirmed the ambush but gave no details. A spokesman at the provincial hospital said 22 bodies had been brought in from the incident.
Taliban spokesman Qari Yousuf Ahmadi said 25 police, including senior commanders, had been killed and four vehicles were destroyed in the attack. Large quantities of weapons were captured, he said. 
Afghan authorities no longer release detailed figures but U.S. Defense Secretary James Mattis recently confirmed casualties have been running at some 500 a month, a figure many officials in Kabul say understates the real toll. 
The losses have been mounting even while U.S. diplomatic efforts to begin peace talks with the Taliban. 
---Nigerian President bags Polio Champion award
President Muhammadu Buhari has been conferred with the prestigious Polio Champion Award in recognition of his uncommon commitment and leadership in the polio eradication programme in Nigeria.
Rotary International President, Mr Barry Rassin, who is on a four-day official visit to Nigeria, presented the award to President Buhari on Thursday, at State House, Abuja.
The Polio Champion Award was instituted by Rotary International in 1995 to recognize and appreciate Heads of Governments and organizations that have played a key role in polio eradication around the world.
The last recipient of the Award was Justin Trudeau, the Prime Minister of Canada. 
Other past recipients include Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and former UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon.
Receiving the award, the Nigerian leader, while thanking Rotary International for the honour, lauded their commitment to humanitarian work across the globe.
‘‘Rotary International is well known to my generation. Your work is really humanitarian; no amount of materialism can pay you for what you have been doing and we thank you very much.
‘‘I am pleased with the efforts of Rotary International, you are champions of the weak, and I pray that God will abundantly pay you for your humanitarian services. 
I am also pleased that I have a competent Health Minister, who supervises the work,” the President said.
Earlier in his remarks, Mr Rassin, while commending the President for providing significant leadership in the efforts to eradicate polio in Nigeria.
He advocated for increased political and financial commitments at all levels for routine immunization and primary health care strengthening.
---Trump to nominate retired General as ambassador to Saudi Arabia
U.S. President Donald Trump on Tuesday nominated a retired Army general to be the country’s ambassador to Saudi Arabia, as Washington faces pressure to respond to the killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi inside the Saudi consulate in Istanbul. 
The White House said Trump has chosen John Abizaid, who as a four-star Army general led the U.S. Central Command during the Iraq war, to be Washington’s ambassador in Riyadh. 
Abizaid must be confirmed by the U.S. Senate. 
In addition to the scandal over Khashoggi’s death, Washington is also grappling with criticism from U.S. lawmakers over its support for Saudi Arabia’s military intervention in Yemen’s civil war. 
The United States has not had an ambassador to Saudi Arabia since Trump took office in January 2017. 
White House national security adviser John Bolton said on Tuesday he does not think recordings related to Khashoggi’s killing, which were shared by Turkey, implicate Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. 
Nigeria seeks stiffer penalties for perpetrators of illicit transactions
Nigerian President, Muhammadu Buhari on Sunday in Paris, called for stringent actions against perpetrators of illicit financial flows, including crackdown on safe heavens. 
He warned that continuous impunity will encourage more pilfering of countries’ resources to the detriment of poor and vulnerable populace. 
Speaking at the first edition of the Paris Peace Forum, held on the sidelines of the Centenary of Armistice Day, President Buhari said Nigeria had strengthened its laws and institutions to fight corruption, fast-track recovery of stolen assets and punish offenders, urging more commitment from governments and international institutions. 
The President delivered his statement on “Illicit Financial Flows (Iffs) and Corruption: The Challenge of Global Governance’’ during the event, which was attended by about 70 world leaders and governments. 
“We must crack down on safe havens for corrupt assets.” 
“I also advocate sanctions by professional bodies against transactional middlemen (lawyers, bankers, brokers, public officials, etc.) who facilitate Illicit Financial Flows,” the President said.
“Our experience in Nigeria is that financial crimes, such as corruption and fraudulent activities, generate enormous unlawful profits which often prove so lucrative that the threat of a jail term is not sufficient to deter perpetrators 
The Nigerian leader urged world leaders and global institutions to remain resolute on the Global Declaration Against Corruption made in London in 2016.
“These revolve around the formulation of policy and regulatory frameworks that cut across different jurisdictions. We must not lose sight of the role played by secret companies, banks and law firms, all too often based in developed economies and their related offshore centres. 
He disclosed that the Whistle-Blowing policy had facilitated recovery of billions of naira from corrupt persons, which had been redirected to the development of critical infrastructure and programmes that will benefit all Nigerians and realization of the SDGs. 
Duke and Duchess of Cornwall arrive in Nigeria
The Prince of Wales and heir to the British throne, Prince Charles and his wife, the Duchess of Cornwall, Camilla have arrived in Abuja. 
Their visit to Nigeria is part of a 9-day tour to Africa. 
Series of engagements The Royal Highnesses would undertake a ‘series of engagements in Abuja and Lagos.’ 
They are expected to meet some of Nigeria’s dynamic youth as well as traditional leaders, the business community, the armed forces, and people from the arts, fashion and charitable sector. 
The visit will highlight key themes in both nations’ relationship, including the importance of Commonwealth ties, youth opportunity, business and entrepreneurship, educating of women and girls, and defence co-operation, among other issues. 
This is the third time the Prince of Wales will be visiting Nigeria, his previous visits were in 1990, 1999 and 2006 while it will be the Duchess of Cornwall’s first visit to Nigeria. 
---Nigeria pledges more dividend of democracy
The Nigerian government says it will continue to focus on the provision of critical infrastructure of the present administration across the country. 
President Muhammadu Buhari stated this on Monday, while receiving the outgoing British High Commissioner to Nigeria, Paul Arkwright, in a farewell address at the State House, Abuja. 
He said: “Our focus now is on infrastructure; roads, rail, power and others. 
How I wish we had fixed all those when we had money. 
He, however, lamented that with the humongous resources at the disposal of Nigeria between 1999 and 2014, it is sad that infrastructure went to rot completely within the same period. 
President Buhari commended the outgoing High Commissioner for his warm and pleasant disposition, which has seen him traversing almost the entire country. 
“I always see you all over the place,” the President noted.
Arkwright, who spent over three years in Nigeria, said he visited 30 of the 36 states, and found the people quite enterprising and engaging, adding that the British government would be glad to offer a helping hand as required in any part of the country. 
He thanked President Buhari for his support, adding that the relations between Britain and Nigeria have improved tremendously in the past three years. 
---Indigenous Miners to benefit from N5bn mining fund
Miners Association of Nigeria has been included in the N5billion FG intervention fund to Artisanal and Small-Scale Miners across the country. 
The association said that the Federal Government has agreed to involve its executives in the disbursement of the N5 billion fund. 
President of the association, Alhaji Sani Shehu said in Abuja that the decision was taken by the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development (MMSD). 
The involvement of the association would enhance the effectiveness of the disbursement to genuine miners across the country. 
The miners executives had complained of not having access to the fund due to stringent conditions by Bank of Industry (BoI) saddled with the disbursement of the fund. 
This effort was a plan by the Federal Government through the MMSD to rejuvenate the mining sector as a means of economic diversification. 
The aim of the intervention was to address lack of fund which was a major factor militating against artisans and small-scale miners operations. 
He said that the ministry had also discovered some reasons why miners were not able to access the fund. 
“Government has given us the opportunity to be involved, identify and also to guarantee our members access the fund. 
“We are happy with this arrangement, we will soon come up with a tripartite arrangement with the ministry and Bank of Industry which the fund is domiciled with to ensure miners access the funds on time,” he said. 
According to Shehu, all conditions required for accessing the fund remains valid, adding that the association would now serve as guarantor for its members. 
---NIBUCAA: The United nations will support Nigeria to fight incurable diseases.
The United nations has said that incurable diseases HIV/AIDS concerns the health of people, therefore, the United nations is prepared to hold some programs that that will support Nigeria, in that it will stop the spread of incurable disease in Nigeria.
The United Nations representative on fighting incurable diseases Erasmus Murah said this in a program Nigeria Business of HIV/AIDS (NIBUCAA) in Abuja, on Wednesday this week.
Musa Shuabu, who is the chairman of NIBUCAA also said the plan to allow private companies in Nigeria cooperate with federal government to fight HIV/AIDS started fifteen years ago during President Olusegun Obasanjo government.
Musa Shuabu said “we have accomplished our plan, because of our love to Nigeria to separate a day to fight the spread of incurable disease.
NIBUCAA founded fifteen years ago by some people, has become famous in the whole world.
Musa Shuabu thanked companies and orgniations for their support for about fifteen years ago to fight the spread of the incurable disease in Nigeria, though the organization is facing a challenge.
The appealed to them not to relent in supporting NIBUCAA the more because there is more work to be done.
The Director NIBUCAA, Gbenga Alabi also said the cooperation of private companies with the government to fight the incurable disease is very important because no single hand can do the work.
We have thirty-seven (37) members now and there is more opportunity to take more member that wish to join us, so that we can together fight the incurable disease in Nigeria. 
Mr. Gbenga Alabi continued that NIBUCAA also join hands with NACA in Nigeria to fight incurable disease and so many successes are recorded through the cooperate work.
He then appealed to private companies not to relent in their help in fighting incurable diseases in Nigeria the more. 
He continued that NIBUCAA has recorded many successes to stop the spread of incurable disease in Nigeria. 
Alabi said NIBUCAA in relation with the supporters has done much in Nigeria in fighting the incurable disease.
NIBUCAA has helped the following states. 
The states are: Abia, Anambra, Akwa-Ibom, Cross River, Edo, Abuja, Kaduna, Katsina, Ekiti, Imo, Enugu, Katsina, Plateau and Oyo state.
After deliberation, the private organizations, government organizations and the concerned concluded on these decisions:
---Nigeria pledges technical support to Sao Tome and Principe
Nigeria has pledged technical support to Sao Tome and Principe on the country’s Parliamentary election scheduled for October 7 this year. 
The Nigerian Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Geoffrey Onyeama disclosed this in an interview with Journalists at the valedictory session to mark the retirement of Ambassador Olukunle Bamgbose, the Permanent Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 
Mr. Onyeama said he embarked on a visit to Sao Tome and Principe to represent President Muhammadu Buhari, on modalities to provide technical support to the country. 
“It was to provide technical assistance to Sao Tome and Principe, the country is having election very soon and we are very keen, and we are working towards how to make it peaceful,” explained Mr. Onyeama. 
According to him, “Mr. President really believe and is interested in supporting neighbouring countries, so it was part of what made the president to send assistance to them.” 
On the retiring Permanent Secretary, Ambassador Bamgbose, the Minister commended him for his hard work and contribution to the development of the Ministry. 
 “He is a hardworking man that is ready to put his best; he has all the qualities that I admire, very hard working, very loyal as well. 
“I like his kind of person, if he doesn’t agree with me, he will tell me why he doesn’t; he will advise me and he was very productive; so we really enjoyed him,” he said. 
Ambassador Bamgbose in his remarks said that he was fulfilled as a Permanent Secretary, adding that he achieved all his set goals in that position. 
“I came up with “quick wins“, and in one year, all the things I thought I could do, I did all of them, so I am going out as a Permanent Secretary fulfilled. 
“I am not going with any regrets because I did all I was supposed to do. 
“I am fully satisfied now that I addressed some of the challenges identified when I was growing up in the Ministry.” 
In his own words “What is important is that the work is continuous, I have done my own part, others will also do theirs, when you do your bit, things will move forward. 
“I am challenging the officers behind me to follow some of the things I laid down. 
“With the combined efforts, we can make some changes in the Foreign Services with beautiful decisions, every officer can come and serve and make impact,” he said. 
The outgoing Permanent Secretary urged the staff of the Ministry to remain focused and sustain the legacy he left behind. 
Ambassador Olukunle Bamgbose is retiring after spending thirty-five years in the Foreign Service.
---ECOWAS countries pledge to do more business with China
President Muhammadu Buhari says countries within the West Africa region will continue to do business with China because of the strong ties that exist between them and the Asian country. 
He made the commitment on Monday, in his capacity as the Chairman of ECOWAS, at the opening of the high-level dialogue between Chinese and African leaders in China. 
President Buhari said the recent tour of the region by Chinese President, Xi Jinping highlighted the importance of closer ties with China. 
He said: “ECOWAS Member States will continue to pay emphasis on encouraging more foreign direct investment in the sub-region. 
To this end, Member States are looking at the opportunities that the China International Import-Export initiative will offer our exporters to gain market access for their goods and services in China.  
“Such an opportunity will help in diversifying the economy of our sub-region from over reliance on primary agricultural and mineral products and subsequently correct the huge trade imbalance between China and the ECOWAS sub-region on a win-win basis for both parties.  
ECOWAS member states would soon introduce policies that will further diversify their economies and enhance business opportunities with China. 
ECOWAS also welcomes more Chinese tourists to visit West Africa. 
Our sub-region is endowed with enormous tourism potentials. 
With China’s support, tourism related infrastructure should be developed to empower our citizens, create more employment opportunities among the teeming population and eliminate poverty.
The ECOWAS Chairman expressed the region’s appreciation to China for investing so much in West Africa. 
“On behalf of the Government and people of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the Authority of Heads of State and Government of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), I wish to express our appreciation to the Government and people of the People’s Republic of China for the warm hospitality extended to our delegations since our arrival in China.  
“China is today, the largest investor in the sub-region, in both private and public sectors; covering areas such as infrastructure, energy, agriculture, mining, and healthcare.  
“China also provides significant assistance in emergency humanitarian aid and response to climate change.  
“Various construction projects are now ongoing in the sub-region, including the construction of railway projects, power infrastructure, airports and numerous roads through Chinese financing,” President Buhari stated. 
---President Buhari, who reminded China of its commitment to build a befitting secretariat for ECOWAS, also pledged that West African countries will continue to encourage more foreign investments in the region. 
He said: “Excellencies, while expressing our appreciation for the strong engagement of China with the ECOWAS sub-region, I also wish to thank President Xi Jinping for the pledge to build a befitting Secretariat for the Commission. 
Jordan warns of consequences as US withdraw Palestine aid
Jordan’s foreign minister has warned of “dangerous consequences to regional stability” if the Palestinian refugee agency UNRWA cannot provide services to refugees. 
The country which presently provides refuge to over two million refugees from troubled middle eastern states said the move represents a major hit for the agency, as the US had long been its biggest donor. 
Foreign Minister Ayman Safadi said that Amman regrets Washington’s decision to cut funding for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine (UNRWA). 
The minister also said that his country will continue to rally for donor support to help ease the financial strain that the agency is currently facing. 
---Meanwhile, Israeli Intelligence Minister Israel Katz praised “the decision of the president of the United States to halt all funding of UNRWA – the body that enshrines the Palestinian refugee problem.” 
UNRWA, which began operations in 1950, assists some five million Palestinian refugees, according to its website.
Nigeria, Germany, UN hold conference on Boko haram
Nigeria, Germany, Norway, and the United Nations have converged on Berlin, on Monday for a “pledging conference on boko haram”. 
The Berlin Conference, holding from Sept. 3 to 4, is jointly organized by the three countries and the UN, and is one of the 2018 largest pledging conferences for the Lake Chad region. 
The conference will focus on humanitarian assistance, civilian protection, crisis prevention and stabilization for the region, as well as seek to raise funds for the humanitarian requirements totaling $1.56 billion. 
The pledges at the conference, would help provide humanitarian assistance for the Northeast Nigeria and parts of Niger, Chad and Cameroon, ravaged by Boko Haram insurgents.
It would also discuss the perspectives of civil society, their concerns and contributions, as well as how to strengthen collaboration between the affected countries and organizations involved in responding to the crisis.
The Nigerian delegation to the Berlin conference is being led by Nigeria’s Ambassador/Permanent Representative to the UN, Prof. Tijjani Bande. 
The Nigerian envoy said recently that Nigeria had developed a 6.7-billion-dollar robust plan of action for the reconstruction, rehabilitation and resettlement of Northeast, devastated by Boko Haram activities.
He stressed the need for collaboration and cooperation among countries of the Lake Chad, the donors, as well as humanitarian and development partners. 
Lake Chad Basin, must provide facilitation of occupational opportunities, job creation, skill acquisition and others, are central to finding lasting solution to the problem in the region. 
To realize all these would entail our collective commitment to a broad range of actions, facilitated by strong international cooperation and partnership, involving the UN agencies and development partners, like the World Bank and African Development Bank, among others.
The UN had also said that it would have provided assistance to no fewer than 6.1 million people affected by the Boko Haram crisis in Northeast Nigeria by the end of 2018. 
UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Nigeria, Mr Edward Kallon, said at a recent event in New York, that Nigeria was still facing a crisis of global magnitude. 
Over 10.2 million people affected in three states in Northeast Nigeria, 7.7 million people in need of humanitarian assistance. 
August 30, 2018 --- Lagos state governor host Britain Prime Minister 
Lagos state governor, Akinwunmi Ambode host Britain Prime Minister Theresa May, he told him that Lagos state is a place where investors settled.
The Governor show his happiness to welcome Britain Prime minister, He said the relationship between Nigeria and Britain has being for long.
He said education, culture and the governance Nigerians are practicing, was leant from Britain.
Ambode added that a good place to invest, Lagos state allow investors to invest most especially they have a stable government as the economy of Lagos is big as compared to the population in Lagos, regard for the law and stable judgment.
He said “we deliberated with Britain government most especially on how the Britain investors will bring development to Lagos economy.
As you know that is a place where investors settled in Nigeria. 
Many Britain citizen have business in Lagos.
‘Governor also said as May came into Lagos, it will allow more business and security development.
He said Britain citizen have the opportunity to partake in many businesses in Lagos, as empowerment, technology, finance, social amenities and companies.
Lagos has been taking many steps to encourage investors to invest.
We have much work done on judiciary, and Britain Prime Minister was happy with this.
He is ready to support us, to help money lending program and development on finance. 
The governor said he will try to all within his capacity to establish the relationship between Lagos state and Britain the more.
He said ‘we have spoken on technology, social amenities and investment.
The relationship between Lagos state and Britain started many years back. 
As you know, Lagos was made the capital city by the Britain during the time of the colonial masters, that is why we must see that many businesses from Britain must be in Lagos.
Britain Prime Minister went round Lagos and he is ready to collaborate with us to allow the Britain citizen invest more business in Nigeria. 
The Britain Prime Minister has shown his happiness when speaking with news men at the airport in Lagos, that he is happy to come to Nigeria especially to Lagos to see how companies are successful. 
He said ‘I am happy to come to Nigeria especially Lagos, a good relationship is between Nigeria and Britain and we have a lot of things to do in the future.
I enjoyed Abuja and Lagos, and I’m happy with the successful economy there.
We want the economy of Nigeria and UK to develop, and invest many businesses in Nigeria, businesses in Britain will be useful in Nigeria.
I thank the Governor of Lagos state.
“He said Lagos state did so well to encourage investors in the state.
Mrs. May said they have made provision to borrow about seven hundred and fifty million Pound Sterling that Lagos state can benefit from.
Britain Prime Minister also said she came with her group who are engineers which Lagos state can benefit from.
Investing business, she also said Britain is ready to assist Lagos state on business and that the jacket she was wearing was made in Nigeria.
Part of those that came to welcome the Prime Minister at expertly 4:30pm in the evening at the airport are, Governor and his Deputy, Dr. Oluranti Adebule and the secretary to the state government, Mr. Tunji Bello and the special assistance to the government and the director of foreign affairs Prof. Ademola abass.
---President Buhari had an indoor meeting with Britain Prime Minister.
The president of Nigeria Muhammadu Buhari and Britain Prime Minister, Theresa May had an indoor meeting at the presidential house in Abuja.
The meeting started at the office of the president at the state house, the moment May came to the state house at expertly 12:00noon.
President Buhari and Directors at the federal government offices came to welcome May.
The meeting will be on the how to establish the Nigeria and Britain relationship.
These two nations will sign a memorandum of understanding on security and development.
Nigeria is part of the Nations May want to visit in Africa. 
---Turkey lock up suspects because of the attack on the American embassy.
Turkish police force has arrested another two suspects on the accusation that, they are part of those that attacked United State embassy which came on Monday at the capital of the country which is Ankara.
According to the news, those concerned said the attacked was possibly from the NATO militant.
Now total number of suspects in detention is four with the two suspect that just joined them.
The police force said two out of the suspects were drunk during the attack.
It was also established that no one was injured in the attack.
---Two people die at the screen sport competition in Florida.
One participant in the screen sport competition in Jacksonville, Florida, in America has killed himself after shut two people who died immediately.
According to the police, the name of the suspect is David Katz, twenty-four years old who is in Baltimore.
So also, eleven more people were brutally injured at the recreation center around Jacksonville on Sunday.
According to eye witness, it was established that, Katz was angry because of his failure to win the American football eSport event which made him to misbehave.
Now, the names of those injured in the incident are yet to be announced, until they pardoned their families, though some people have been showing concern on the esport event website.
Different accident is happening in Florida about some years ago, and the incident that occurred around the Pulse night club in Orland in the year 2016, the incident that killed forty nine people, also the incident that killed seventeen people in Marjory Stoneman Douglas School around Parkland in February this month.
---Iran promised to support the reformation of Syria.
Iran has decided to fulfill her promise in a way to support the reformation in Syria through the provision of budget, an established politics and the support for the soldiers.
Amir Hatami who is the Minister in charge of security in Iran told the news men during his meeting with the Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and Minister for defense in the country, Ali Abdullah Ayyoub.
The two nations had agreement to collaborate on the reformation of Syria, and will not allow other nation to partake in the reformation.
Hatami said ‘ Syria is in a junction that is important now, because the nation has gone through so difficult things, and the nation is on the way to start the reformation ‘according to department of finance and environment in the United nations establish it that Syria has loss three hundred and eighty eight billion dollar ($388bn) as a result of different incidents and conflict since 2011.
Last month, President Assad explained that the reformation of Syria is of importance to him, after many Iran citizen have lost their life and some their houses and their properties in the different incidents.
---The airline stolen in Seattle-Tacoma has crashed in an Island.
An airline staff that stole an air plane at Seattle airport in America has crashed in an Island.
The authority said the airplane took off on Friday without taking permission to take off from the airport which made the government to lock up Seattle-Tacoma airport.
Two combat airlines F15 were chosen to follow and search for the airline before hearing its crash with a great noise.
The commissioner of Police in the area, Pearl Pasor said it was not rebels that stole the airplane but a pilot of twenty nine years old 
A screen picture showed that, appeals were made to the man to land safely before the plane crashed.
Seattle Times newspaper described that the man as a someone who does not care about anything and have send many video clips online where he was using an airline Q400 belonging to Alaska Airlines for different display.
Leah Morse, who took the picture of how the man was landing said he took note that something was wrong with the airline on air before landing close to his house with loud noise.
---Nigerian government will charge the customer of Russian airline.
Federal government of Nigeria has planned to charge the customer of the airline that conveyed the lovers to Russia but failed to take them back to Nigeria, which make the people to become wanderer after the football cup competition in Russia.
Nigeria ambassador to Russia, Prof. Steve Ugba said this on an online video clip, in which he sent to the speaker of the commission on foreign affairs Tope Elias-Fatile on Sunday in Abuja.
Ugba made the lovers of Nigeria in Moscow, Russia understand the situation of the government before going to Nigeria.
Over one hundred and fifty Nigerians that are football fans that airline customers failed to return to Nigeria, in that they also went to Nigeria embassy in Moscow on 12th of July, to seek assistant from the commission after the football game competition.
On the 16th the President of Nigeria Mohammadu Buhari has commanded the for foreign affairs Geoffrey Onyeama and his colleague on aviation Hadi Sirika, to convey all Nigerian back to Nigeria immediately. 
Before the day an Ethiopia airline has conveyed one hundred and fifty-four people to Abuja on the 20th of July.
They showed their displeasure to the President of Nigeria Muhammadu Buhari to see to it that those people return home.
Ugba, said the government of this nation will not allow accused go free, He now appealed to the Nigerian football fans to send their report to their ministry, so that the government will arrest the accused.
“Give us the report about the people that cheated you, that take away your money, to give them the right punishment in Nigeria.
We will not allow them go unpunished. 
Because of this, give us the report you have about them.
He also said “we are waiting for them in Nigeria, this type of attitude shows that you are good people and that you respect yourself and your nation.
‘It is not a crime that we come to Russia, for it to be a crime coming back home’
‘it is a crime for anyone that sell ticket to you, and fail to return you home after receiving the payment for the return ticket so it’s not your fault.’
He also said ‘we will make sure those who did this are punished under the law, so that such will not repeat itself.  
‘Ugba also said Nigeria commend thisfans has they have travelled to Russia to honor the Super Eagles in Russia.
He said this act has made Nigeria a special friend with Russia.
---President Trump will renovate the presidential airplane.
The President of America, Donald Trump has said he will renovate the presidential airplane by painting it red, white and blue.
Trump said ‘it is good that the new Boeing airplane be painted red, white and blue.
The former president of America, John F. Kennydy and his wife choose this color in 1960.
A new stage and this new stage will end in 2021.
Trump said this in Scotland on Sunday that, the airplane will be useful for the Presidents in the future because it will last many years.
Trump also said ‘we shall have many Presidents that benefit from this.
The renovation to the airplane will be so good, and will be the best in the whole world.
The American air force has two airplanes. 
In 1959 President Dwight Eisenhowe used the first airplane, with red and gold paint, but during the government of President Kennedy the airplane uses a blue and white paint till today.
The oppositions have started sending comments on his twitter account that Russian, China and France airplane also have a red white and blue color, therefore Trump should retain the color.
The news house in America said President Trump is planning to renovate the airplane.
The news also reported that Trump want the airplane to like new ‘look like America’s and turn from looking like Jackie Kennedy paint’, that which Raymond Loewy said it look like a ship. 
The airplane has been in use for thirty years, and it was George H W Bush who first flied in it.
When President Trump won as the president of America, he spoke on his twitter account that to buy a presidential plane will cost four billion dollars, which he cancelled.
---President Buhari arrived Hague for ICC meeting.
On Sunday evening, the president of Nigeria Mohammadu Buhari arrived Netherlands before his journey to the world court for the criminal act, ICC in Hague.
The president airplane landed in Rotterdamat Hague airport around 7:23pm Nigeria time.
The president of the world court ICC, Justice Eboe-Osuji, and his vice for the court Marc Perrin de Brichambut and Minister for foreign affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, went to welcome the president at the airport.
Part of those at the airport are Oji Ngofa, Nigeria ambassador for Netherlands, Mr. Robert Petri who is the Netherlands ambasssardor for Nigeria, General Veenhuijzen, special assistant to the Netherlands King and the Directors for the ministry of foreign affairs in Netherlands.
The special assistant to the President on media and publicity, Femi Adesina said that the President will use the opportunity to speak at the occasion of twenty years anniversary that Rome joined the world court and see to criminality. 
The president will also use the opportunity to see Mrs. Fatou Bensouda who is also an ICC lawyer.
Femi Adesina also said ‘he is the only president invited on the occasion of twenty years anniversary and and the directors in the ministries in Nigeria saw this invitation as a means to appreciate the support given by Nigeria for the day.
Before the President arrival at Hague, Nigeria Ambassador said though some are against the world court in charge of criminality yet President Buhari believed that the court work will put an end to criminality in the world. 
‘Since twenty years ago Nigeria has been a back bone for the world court most especially in Africa.
Therefore, the president’s journey to the world court is a way to show his pleasure to the support.
The ambassador also said ‘there is assurance that the president journey will also show that Nigeria is a supporter of Roman decision.
---President Buhari mourns Plateau Senator, Longjan
President Muhammadu Buhari has extended heartfelt condolences to the National Assembly, government and people of Plateau State over the demise of Senator Ignatius Longjan, who represented Plateau South.
The President commiserates with family, friends and political associates of the senator, who served the state as a deputy governor, 2011-2015, and had also served the country as a career diplomat for many years.
The President prays that the Almighty God will grant the soul of the departed rest.
---Police reiterates committment towards ending banditry
Nigeria Police has reiterated it’s commitment towards ending all banditry and other crimes in the Country.
Inspector General of Police Mr. Mohammed Adamu Abubakar stated this when he visited the gallant officers who were injured during the operation that was carried out in Kuduru Forest in Birnin Gwari Local Council of Kaduna State.
Represented by the Deputy Inspector General of Police in charge of operations, Mr. Abdulmajid Ali said he was sent by the Inspector General of Police to see the condition of the gallant officers who were injured during the operation.
He expressed satisfaction with the pace of health improvement of the injured men, whom he said are very stable. “The Doctor treating them said there is no need to worry as they are responding to treatment“.
He assured the injured men of receiving the best of treatment.
The DIG disclosed that, unfortunately, they lost another officer which increased the number of death to two. They are Muhammad Abubakar and Sergeant Idris.
---The World Health Organisation has urged the Nigerian government to strengthen surveillance in nine Coronavirus prone states. 
WHO Technical Officer on Health Emergence Programme, Ms Dhamari Naidoo made the appeal at a media sensitisation workshop organized by the WHO, in Abuja. 
She said that some of the states in Nigeria that are highly prone to coronavirus infection includes: Abuja, Lagos, Kano, Cross River, Akwa Ibom, Port Harcourt, Enugu, Delta, and Bayelsa. 
She, however, noted that Nigeria has strengthened diagnostic testing capacity at National Reference Laboratory in Gaduwa, Abuja and at LUTH, Lagos currently being supported to implement testing.
Ms Naidoo said WHO has identify 13 countries of Algeria, Angola, Cote d’Ivoire, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Mauritius, Nigeria, South Africa, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia, which due to their direct links or high volume of travel, to China need to also increase their preparedness measures. 
Also speaking at the workshop, WHO communication expert, Ms Charity Warigon, said that the workshop was aimed at acquainting the media with terms and terminology in reporting the dreaded coronavirus.
---Germany has stated its readiness to partner with Nigeria to tackle migration issues. 
The German State Minister at the Federal Chancellery and Commissioner for Migration, Refugees, and Integration, H.E. Annette Widmann-Mauz stated this when she visited Nigeria. 
The German Minister noted that “Nigeria plays an important role as a country of origin for refugees in Germany and that’s why we need to work together as strong partners and I’m eager to see.
She explained that there was an urgent need to address the reason why people are fleeing the country. 
She added that “in order to achieve that we need strong partners and we have good and strong partners in Nigeria. Because we need to make sure that those that come back have a perspective and a future”. 
Speaking earlier, the Commissioner of the National Commission for Refugees, Migrants, and Internally Displaced Persons IDPs, Senator Basheer Garba Mohammed stated that Nigeria is a significant country in global migration discourse. 
Nigerian Senate holds closed-door meeting with IGP
The Senate has dedicated most of Wednesday’s plenary to tackling insecurity, and so resolved into a closed session, to enable the Inspector General of Police, Mohammmed Adamu to brief the Senate on security situation in the country. 
---President Muhammadu Buhari has strongly condemned the terrorist killing of Lawan Andimi, Chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) in Michika Local Government Area of Adamawa state, describing it as cruel, inhuman and deliberately provocative. 
In his reaction to the incident, President Buhari expressed sorrow that the terrorists went on to kill the religious leader while giving signals at the same of a willingness to set him free by releasing him to third parties. 
---The government of the United States of America has thrown its weight behind President Muhammadu Buhari’s personal commitment to the anti-corruption crusade in Nigeria. 
In a statement issued by Morgan Ortagus, Spokesperson of the State Department at the end of the signing of the agreement between the U.S. government, the Bailiwick of Jersey, and the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the return of more than $308 million stolen by late General Sani Abacha , the US government also  pledged their commitment to continue to support all other efforts by stakeholders to combat corruption at all levels in Nigeria . 
Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to the President, Garba Shehu disclosed this on Tuesday night via a presidency statement. 
---President Buhari mourns former Kenyan leader Moi
President Muhammadu Buhari has described the late former President of Kenya, Daniel Arap Moi as a frontline nationalist who gave his best for the development of his country. 
He said Moi was a key factor in the stability of the East African region and Africa in general. 
Condoling with President Uhuru Kenyatta, the government and the people of Kenya, President Buhari said: “From a humble beginning (as a school teacher), the late Arap Moi became a politician, a committed democrat, was elected President.
He prays that God Almighty will repose his soul. 
---Minister says Nigeria media environment, one of the freest
The Nigerian government says it runs one of the freest press environments in the world. 
The government said even though it has provided enough space for freedom, it was still expecting such freedom to be enjoyed with responsibility. 
Sanitisation of social media Nigeria’s minister of Information and Culture, Mr. Lai Mohammed also said his ministry would this month, convene a stakeholders’ meeting as part of efforts to design a framework for the sanitisation of the Social Media. 
The Minister stated this in Abuja on Monday when he received the Finnish Ambassador to Nigeria, Dr. Jyrki Pulkkinen, and the Ambassador of Innovation of the Foreign Affairs Ministry of Finland, Mr. Jarmo Sareva, who were on an advocacy visit to promote the ideals of the Freedom Online Coalition. 
He said the government was responding to the irresponsible use of the Social Media to promote fake news and hate speech by some unscrupulous individuals. 
---APC governors to submit Constitutional Amendment Bill to National Assembly
Governors of the All Progressives Congress, APC under the platform of the Progressive Governors Forum, PGF are studying areas for constitutional amendment which they will submit to the National Assembly. 
Edo state governor Godwin Obaseki who was represented by his deputy Mr. Philip Shuaibu stated this while briefing journalists in Abuja after a meeting of the PGF Steering Committee on Good Governance. 
He said the committee will study the report of governor Nasir El-Rufai-led committee on restructuring and draw out the areas that need amendments from the report. 
Mr Shuaibu added that the PGF is working on better synergy between the APC governors, legislators and the party in order to better drive the party’s manifesto and good governance in their various states. 
Senate Leader, Yahaya Abdullahi who was at the meeting said a sub-committee has been set up to come up with key areas from the El-Rufai report that would require legislative action especially in areas of good governance both at the state and federal levels. 
