--- Anthony Joshua discussed on the venue of competing with Jarrell Miller
Now, the Britain boxer, Antony Joshua is having a meeting on which field to practice before competiting with the New York boxer, Jarrell Miller in a combat for the world cup.
Though, Anthony Joshua at not t any time relaxed, afte his longtime preparation for the competition. 
The News established it that, Joshua is waiting for an assurance of the competition between himself and Miller at the Madison Square June this year.
Also his losing counterpart Eddie Hearn had a meeting with Dillian Whyte on maybe the competition between them will be restaged.
--- Martial extends his term in Manchester United.
The French scorer, Anthony Martial who is player of Manchester United has signed a five years work agreement to extend his his term in Manchester United till 2024.
Though, different rumour is on in the market that it is possible that the football athlete will leave Manchester United.
Now, Martial has scored a total of ten goals in this season and help for a goal in twenty five (25) football match in this season.
Many of the footballers commend the acting coaching for Manchester Unuted, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer for his hard work and the part played since he has substituted the former coach of the football club Jose Mourinho.
According to Martial, I thank Ole so much and the other coaches for the their believe in me, because they helped me so much to bring increase to how I participated.
We know Manchester United football club in the past as football club that love to win the trouphy, I am so sure that very soon we will win the trouphy.  
Anthony Martial joined Manchester United in 2015 from Monaco football club for thirty six million Euro (£36 million or $47m) , since then he has been seing himself has one of the best young footballer. 
The club football coach, Solskjaer also show his displeasure after Martial signed an agreement with the club.
Anthony is one of the young best football players for the club, and a player that any coach will love to have in his team, because he is easy to work with 
--- Sarri-  I am not stopping Hazard if he want to go.
Chelsea football club coach, Maurizio Sarri made Eden Hazard to know that he is not stopping him if he decided to be going.
Sarri said truly he wanted Hazzard to remain in Chelsea, but he wil not stop him if he want to leave the football club.
Remembering that Real Madrid Football club had wanted Hazard to join her club in Spain.
And Hazard himself has said he love to join Resl Madrid, if the club is ready to buy him over.
Now Chelsea football club want Hazard to sign an agreement  before the former agreement will lapse next year.
Hazard joined Chelsea in 2012 and scored a total of ten goals for chealsea in the premier league this season.
--- Dream Stars Ladies unveils new Head Coach
The team, Dream Stars Ladies of Lagos has unveiled new Head Coach, Felix Nwosu, ahead of the 2018/2019 Nigeria Women Premier League season. 
The newly promoted Lagos based team has finalised the appointment of the widely travelled Anambra born coach. 
Felix Nwosu is an experienced coach who has stints with FC Talanta Kenya, Heegan FC Somali, FIN FA Enugu, FIN Angels, Ambassador Child Youth Club /Angels Enugu. 
Nomination He was nominated and recognised by Arsenal FC/ WorldRemit amongst the best 25 Youth coaches across Africa in a pool of over 700 coaches. 
Dream Stars Ladies Chairman, Mr AbdulRahmon Abolore said; “the club opted for Nwosu because of his wealth of experience and he is confident that the former Gor Mahia defender can help the club achieve its objectives. 
“Our aim is to make the best out of our promotion to the Premier League and we don’t want to leave any stone unturned.” 
--- There is no assurance of recovering Emiliano Sala that was missing.
The senior officer of the commission in charge of emergencies and missing aircraft in island, Mr. John Fitzgerald has said there is no hope that Sala will be recorvered. 
Emiliano Sala an Argentine, who is twenty eight (28) years old was with a pilot in a air plane that got missing yesterday Monday.
Furthermore, the rescue team has continued in the search for the missing airplane and the passengers on Wednesday.
An information said that Sala send a internet whatsapp message to a friend his family, that he was scared with the way the airplane is moving in air.
According to a reporter from Argentina, Sala told his family that ‘ I am in an air plane that is like it want to crash. 
Now around 11:30 am, Guernsey police command said, the three aircrafts  and a small airplane were in the air,as Piper Malibu is been searched for.
Also, the policemen said they are checking the phone conversatiions if it can be of help.
But till now,there is no news about the missing plane.
Sala is going to the capital city of Welsh after he has signed a contract of fifteen million pound with Bluebirds football team.
--- Arsenal’s Petr Cech set to retire end of season
After 20 years as a professional, Arsenal’s first choice goalkeeper Petr Cech is set to retire at the end of the 2018/2019 English Premier League (EPL) season. 
The 36-year-old who joined Arsenal in June 2015 from Chelsea announced this on his twitter handle @petrcech on Tuesday. 
“This is my 20thseason as a professional player and it has been 20 years since I signed my first professional contract. 
--- Omeruo to welcome permanent move to CD Leganes
Super Eagles defender, Kenneth Omeruo has said that he will welcome his loan move if it is made permanent at CD Leganes because the La Liga club feel very much like home. 
Omeruo is on loan from Chelsea till the end of the season and he has already established himself at Leganes, who have done well so far to stay clear of the relegation pack. 
“Right now, I feel more at home, having been tossed up and down on different loans deals before arriving at the Spanish side,” the Super Eagles defender opened up to media. 
it’s more like a dream come true for me knowing full well La Liga is rated as one of the biggest leagues in the world.  
“I will not hesitate to sign the dotted lines for the Spanish side if the opportunity comes.” 
The modest Madrid club will have to shell out five million Euros to sign Omeruo, 25, on a permanent basis in the summer.
--- NFF confirms Keshi Stadium for Seychelles, Egypt matches
The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) is believed to have settled for the  Keshi Stadium in Asaba, Delta State to host the international friendly between the Super Eagles and the Pharaohs of Egypt and the dead-rubber last 2019 African Cup of Nations qualifying Group B match  against Seychelles. 
A top official in the Glass House in Abuja said that the deal to host the two matches in Asaba is almost a done deal because the Delta State Government has agreed to take 70 per cent of the cost to prosecute the matches. 
“We have reached the final phase of discussion and all seem to be done deal as the Asaba stadium will stage the matches all things been equal,” he said.  
The international match against Egypt will attract top players like Mohammed Salah of Liverpool FC, Mohammed El-Shenawy and Ahmed Hegazi. 
The Governor Ifeanyi Okowa administration is said to be passionate about sports tourism and a visit of the top English Premiership star will be a big boost to Asaba and neighboring towns within the state. 
--- Egypt favourite to host 2019 AFCON
Egypt, the land of Pyramids is the likely host for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations, CAF sources have hinted and by all indications the rest of the continent could be heading back to that football crazy nation next year. 
The last time Egypt hosted the Africa Cup of Nations, the Super Eagles finished third; a third consecutive bronze medal at three straight editions. 
According to sources, CAF is ready to rule in favor of Egypt’s bid to host the 2019 AFCON. 
AFCON President Amaju Pinnick explained that the Confederation would only consider bids from countries with the ability to host the competition. 
CAF will announce the new hosts for the 2019 AFCON on January 9. 
--- Mbappe wins French player of the year
Paris Saint-Germain forward, Kylian Mbappe, has been crowned French Player of the Year for the first time. 
The 20-year-old forward who was pivotal to France winning the World Cup in Russia last summer enjoyed a remarkable 2018.  
Mbappe helped Les Bleus to go all the way, with a fine individual effort netted in a 4-2 final triumph over Croatia. 
Mbappe has hit 16 goals in 19 appearances for PSG this season, as they continue to chase down more trophies at home and abroad. 
He finished fourth in the vote for the 2018 Ballon d’Or, with that lofty standing placing him above five-time winner Lionel Messi. 
Mbappe was awarded that gong by France Football, having edged out Raphael Varane and Antoine Griezmann. 
He inherits the title from Chelsea midfielder N’Golo Kante, who came out on top in 2017. 
--- President Weah’s striker son to join Celtic on loan
Timothy Weah will leave French champions Paris St Germain (PSG) on loan to join Scottish champions Celtic.  
Weah said on Tuesday. 
British media reported that the 18-year-old was set to join Scottish champions Celtic. 
Weah has played only three times for PSG this season as bigger names such as Neymar, Kylian Mbappe and Edinson Cavani have limited his first-team chances. 
In a message posted in French on his Instagram page, Weah thanked his PSG team mates, the coaching staff and supporters for making him feel part of the family. 
Weah is the son of former Liberia, PSG and AC Milan striker, George Weah who is now the President of Liberia
--- this are the breakdown of the EPL competition over the weekend.
Crystal Palace football team lead Manchester City with three (3) goals to two (2) in the English premier league over the weekend.
Also Leicester city defeated Chelsea with One (1) goal to nothing.
Ealier in the first competiton that came up on Saturday, Arsenal football team wins Burley with three (3) goals to one (1). 
Southampton defeated Huddersfield with three (3) goals to one (1) special thanks to the goal scored by Micheal Obafemi.
Also Watford defeated Ham with two (2) goals to nothing, Bournemouth wins Brighton with two (2) goals to nothing.
 --- FIFA ranking: Eagles end 2018 in 44th spot
Super Eagles ended the year 2018 maintaining their 44th position in the latest FIFA World Ranking released on Thursday. 
The three-time African champions also retained their fourth position in Africa. 
Senegal also retained top spot in Africa with Tunisia, Morocco, Nigeria and DR Congo completing the top five teams on the continent. 
Belgium remain top in the latest ranking with France (2nd, unchanged), Brazil (3rd, unchanged), Croatia (4th)  and England (5th). 
The next FIFA/Coca-Cola World Ranking will be published on February 7, 2019.  
--- Mourinho welcomed me back to Premier League- Ranieri
Claudio Ranieri revealed on Thursday that Jose Mourinho was the first manager to welcome him back to the Premier League when he was appointed Fulham boss last month. 
Fulham visit Old Trafford on Saturday, where Mourinho’s Manchester United will hope to secure their first Premier League victory in five games, reuniting the pair for the first time since Ranieri’s departure from Leicester. 
But the Fulham manager said: “He was the first who sent me a message to say ‘welcome back’. 
He is a very friendly friend. 
“I have known him for a long time, when he came to Chelsea and when he was in Italy, and he was very polite with me. 
He’s a great man, coach, manager. 
Bottom side Fulham produced an encouraging performance in Wednesday’s 1-1 draw with Leicester, giving the 67-year-old Ranieri one victory, one draw and one defeat from his three matches in charge. 
--- Presidency, NFF receive Falcons in Abuja
The Chief of Staff to the President, Alhaji Abba Kyari,  led a delegation of prominent Nigerians and top officials of the Nigeria Football Federation who received the Super Falcons on arrival in Abuja on Sunday evening. 
Nine-time African champions, Super Falcons, flew into the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport few minutes before 4pm.
Some of the Super Falcons team that flew into Abuja are NFF General Secretary, Dr Mohammed Sanusi, as well as other officials of the NFF. 
On Saturday at the Accra Sports Stadium, the Falcons prevailed over a resilient South African Banyana Banyana side 4-3 on penalties after a scoreless 120 minutes, to lift the top African women football diadem for the third successive time and ninth time overall. 
“On behalf of Mr President, who is not in the country at the moment, we say welcome and well done to you. 
In fact, as we were leaving the airport, two eminent Nigerians called and donated the sum of N50m and N25m respectively to your team. 
Please rest very well. 
We will get back to you with the activities lined up for you in the coming days.” 
NFF General Secretary Mohammed Sanusi, said, “On behalf of the leadership of the NFF, we are grateful for the support from the Nigerian government, which has seen the team excel at the Cup of Nations. 
The girls have promised to do their best to represent the country very well at the 2019 Women’s World Cup.”  
--- Berhalter named coach of U.S. men’s national football team
Former Columbus Crew manager Gregg Berhalter was officially named the next coach of the U.S. men’s national football team on Sunday. 
The 45-year-old Berhalter replaces interim coach Dave Sarachan to become the youngest coach to lead the team since Steve Sampson in 1995. 
“We are excited to announce Gregg as the next head coach of the U.S. Men’s National Team,” said U.S. Soccer president Carlos Cordeiro in a statement. 
“As an experienced former national team player and highly regarded professional coach, we are confident he is the best person to guide our programme forward. 
“We are looking forward to formally introducing him on Tuesday in New York.” 
Berhalter will be officially introduced at a press conference at noon ET on Tuesday. 
A former player, Berhalter was on the 2002 and 2006 FIFA U.S. World Cup roster. 
--- President Buhari congratulates Super Falcons for emerging African champions
President Muhammadu Buhari last night congratulated the Super Falcons of Nigeria on their victory over the Banyana Banyana of South Africa Saturday in the final match of the 11th Africa Women Cup of Nations (AWCON), Ghana 2018. 
The President expressed particular delight at the discipline and commitment exhibited by the country’s senior women football team despite the stiff resistance of their South African counterparts. 
Noting that the Super Falcons had earlier qualified to represent Nigeria at the FIFA Women World Cup tournament in France next year, President Buhari described winning the AWCON for the third consecutive time and ninth overall, as the “icing on the cake.” 
Saluting the country’s female football ambassadors for doing their fatherland proud and showing clear dominance on the African continent, he urged them to approach the France 2019 competition with clear focus and determination to excel on the global stage. 
President Buhari also commended the team’s coaching crew, the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF), Supporters Club and all football-loving citizens for adequately preparing and supporting the players, enjoining all stakeholders not to relent in rallying round the country’s football representatives going forward. 
“I have never doubted the capacity of Nigerians to excel when given the right support,” he noted, while promising the Federal Government’s commitment to sports development as a unifying force. 
--- Rohr reveals what excites him about Super Eagles attack
As Nigeria gear up for their engagements next year after successfully qualifying for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations, coach of the senior national team of Nigeria Gernot is excited about the options available to him in attack. 
Following their 1-1 draw against South Africa, Nigeria will begin preparation for the next AFCON in March when they play Seychelles and one particular area of the team which the coach is not bother about is the options available to him in attack. 
Rohr insist the Nigerian team has options which makes the team more exciting in attack with pace as the main asset of all of them. 
“We want to have quick players on the wings.The new boys are doing well. You have Kalu, Simon Chukwueze, Victor Osimhen who scored on Sunday and Collins. I like the competition. For instance Kalu can defend and at the same time attack which is good for the team,” the coach said.
---Pinnick hails Zenith Bank for AFCON 2019 ticket
The NFF President, Mr. Amaju Pinnick, has hailed Zenith Bank Plc. for its support towards the qualification of the Super Eagles for the 2019 African Cup of Nations (AFCON) slated for Cameroon. 
While presenting an autographed jersey of the Super Eagles to the Group Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer of Zenith Bank Plc, Mr. Peter Amangbo, as a thank you gesture from all the players for the bank’s support towards the team’s qualification for the 2019 AFCON, Pinnick thanked the bank for its continuous support towards the development of football and sports in general in the country. 
He noted that the story may have been different if not for the bank’s contributions and support, which was no doubt very vital to the recent qualification of the Super Eagles for the 2019 AFCON Championship. 
While responding, Amangbo reaffirmed the commitment of the bank towards supporting all the national football teams, and promised to continue to fulfill its part of the partnership with a view to ensuring that Nigerian national football teams take their pride of place in global football. 
--- Super Falcons qualify for AWCON final
The Super Falcons of Nigeria have qualified for the final of the ongoing African Women Cup of Nations in Ghana. 
Super Falcons edged past the Cameroonian team 4-2 in the penalty shoot-out after 120 minutes of play. 
With this result, Nigeria has qualified for the 2019 World Cup. 
--- Didier Drogba retires from active football
Former Chelsea and Ivory Coast forward Didier Drogba has confirmed his retirement as a player. 
The 40-year-old scored 164 goals in 381 appearances over two spells with Chelsea, helping them win the Premier League four times and the Champions League in 2012, as well as four FA Cup triumphs and three League Cup victories. 
Drogba had been playing this season in the United States with Phoenix Rising, the second-tier club at which he is a co-owner. The veteran forward had been expected to hang up his boots following the United Soccer League Cup final defeat to Louisville City earlier this month. 
And confirmation arrived on Wednesday evening as Drogba posted a picture of him as a youngster on his social media accounts, accompanied by a farewell message.
--- AWCON 2018: Super Falcons thrash Zambia’s Shepolopolo 4-0
Nigeria’s Super Falcons beat the Shepolopolo of Zambia 4-0 on Wednesday at Cape Coast in Ghana to return to contention at the 11th African Women Cup of Nations. 
The defending champions, who lost their opening match on Sunday, bounced back into contention with an emphatic win which sent them to the top of the group’s table, at least temporarily. 
Desire Oparanozie scored the opening goal for a 1-0 half-time lead, while Francesca Ordega added the second goal minutes into the second half. 
Oparanozie soon added another goal to make it 3-0, while substitute Amarachi Okoronkwo put the icing on the cake with her goal to make it 4-0. 
The win helped Nigeria to dislodge Zambia at the head of Group B table, ahead of the South Africa versus Equatorial Guinea match which comes up later in the day. 
The Falcons will now take on Equatorial Guinea in their final group phase match on Saturday, while the Shepolopolo face South Africa on the same day. 
--- President Buhari congratulates Super Eagles for AFCON 2019 qualification
President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated the Super Eagles of Nigeria on their qualification for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon. 
His message came soon after the score draw against the Bafana Bafana of South Africa in Johannesburg on Saturday. 
The President joins millions of football-loving Nigerians in commending the team for their spirited and disciplined performance against a very formidable opponent, which earned them qualification with the final match against Seychelles a mere formality. . 
He equally commends the coaching crew, the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) and the Supporters Club, especially Nigerians residing in South Africa, who turned out in great numbers to cheer the players, for a job well-done. 
President Buhari assured the Super Eagles of the unflinching support of the Federal Government going forward. 
--- Belgium stays perfect in UEFA Nations League
Michy Batshuayi proved a more than capable replacement for the injured Romelu Lukaku on Thursday when he scored twice as Belgium beat Iceland 2-0 to maintain its 100 percent record in the inaugural UEFA Nations League. 
After 65 minutes of pounding the Iceland defense, captain Eden Hazard found Thomas Meunier on the right and the Paris Saint-Germain winger crossed for Batshuayi to slot the ball home. 
The second goal was even easier for the on-loan Valencia striker, as he tapped the ball into the net after Hans Vanaken’s shot had rebounded to him. 
Belgium has nine points from three games in Group 2 of League A, three ahead of Switzerland. 
A draw against the Swiss on Sunday will be enough to take Belgium through to the Final Four in June. Iceland lost all 4 matches and is relegated. 
--- UEFA Nations League: Croatia Stuns Spain 
Croatia will now head to London with a spring in their step while Spain are left to ponder back-to-back defeats under their new coach Luis Enrique. 
Spain passed up the chance to seal progress to the Nations League finals as they were beaten 3-2 by Croatia on Thursday, undone by a 93rd-minute winner from Tin Jedvaj. 
Jedvaj’s late strike leaves Group 4 wide open ahead of its final fixture between England and Croatia on Sunday. 
The victors will qualify, while Spain can still go through if the match at Wembley finishes in a draw. Croatia were deserving winners in Zagreb, where Jedvaj scored twice – his first international goals – to snatch a memorable victory at the end of a pulsating contest. 
Croatia will now head to London with a spring in their step while Spain are left to ponder back-to-back defeats under their new coach Luis Enrique, following their surprise loss by the same scoreline at home to England last month. 
Spain are at least safe from relegation, which cannot be said of either England or Croatia, who could still both finish first or last come Sunday night. England will be relegated if they lose or are held to a score draw. Croatia will go down if they are beaten or draw 0-0. 
--- Djokovic crushes Zverev at ATP Finals
World number one Novak Djokovic produced a rock-solid performance to dismantle the challenge of German firebrand Alexander Zverev at the ATP Finals on Wednesday. 
The Serb, 10 years older than his opponent, was made to work hard in an absorbing first set but Zverev’s challenge crumbled at the O2 Arena as Djokovic won 6-4 6-1. 
The victory helped the five-times champion to move within sight of the semi-finals. 
Djokovic, who will end the year as world number one for the fifth time in his career after a storming second half of the season, leads the Gustavo Kuerten group. 
This helped the Serb to seal his 33rd win in his last 35 matches. 
--- Bafana clash: Musa, Balogun, 20 others train in Asaba
Gernot Rohr had 22 of his invited players train on Tuesday at the Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba, as they begin full preparations for Saturday’s 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifying battle against the Bafana Bafana at the FNB Stadium, Johannesburg. 
Only Bordeaux striker Samuel Kalu, who is expected in camp today, was not part of the training. 
Stand-in captain Ahmed Musa as well as goalkeepers Daniel Akpeyi, Theophilus Afelokhai and Ikechukwu Ezenwa and defenders Olaoluwa Aina, Adeleye Aniyikaye, Semi Ajayi, Bryan Idowu, William Troost-Ekong, Leon Balogun, Kenneth Omeruo and Jamilu Collins trained. 
There were also midfielders Oghenekaro Etebo, John Ogu and Mikel Agu, and forwards Kelechi Iheanacho, Moses Simon, Victor Osimhen, Henry Onyekuru, Alex Iwobi, Isaac Success and Samuel Chukwueze. 
On Matchday 1 of the qualifying series, South Africa won 2-0 with goals from Tokelo Rantie and Percy Tau right inside the Godswill Akpabio Stadium, as Coach Gernot Rohr sent out a young, inexperienced Nigerian squad. 
--- We’re not afraid of Nigeria, insists Baxter
Bafana Bafana coach Stuart Baxter says he and his team holds no fear over facing Nigeria’s Super Eagles in Saturday’s 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier at the FNB Stadium, Johannesburg. 
Baxter, who is gunning for his third win in three games when Bafana face the Super Eagles, expects the three-time African champions to have vengeance on their mind ahead of the clash. 
The British gaffer led South Africa to a 2-1 win over Nigeria in 2004 in a Mandela Challenge before defeating the Super Eagles 2-0 in a 2019 AFCON qualifier in Uyo in June 2017 – his first match in his second stint at the helms. 
-- Flying Eagles to play Ghana, Benin in WAFU tourney
Nigeria’s U-20 team, Flying Eagles, will battle their counterparts from Ghana, Niger Republic and Benin Republic in Group B of the WAFU U-20 Cup Tournament holding in Lome, Togo, from December 6 to 16. 
Organisers have put the competition together as a major preparatory programme for the sub-region’s five teams that have qualified to participate at the 2019 Africa U-20 Cup of Nations in Tanzania from February 2 to 17, 2019. 
Seven-time champions Nigeria, alongside Senegal, Burkina Faso, Ghana and Niger Republic will take part in the 11-day tourney in Lome. The five countries will be joined in Tanzania by Burundi, Angola and the hosts. 
The Flying Eagles play against the Young Squirrels of Benin in their first match of the tournament on December 7, before matches against Junior Mena of Niger Republic (Dec. 9) and Ghana’s Black Satellites (Dec. 12). 
--- Chinese club joins race to sign Victor Moses
T‎he future of Victor Moses at Chelsea appears to be bleak after coach of the team Maurizo Sarri omitted him from his squad for the Europa League game against Bate Borisov, . 
Moses was told in clear terms by Sarri that he is free to leave the team in January when the transfer window opens and since then the Nigerian hasn’t made the matchday squad for any of their game. 
Crystal Palace and Wolverhampton Wanderers have signified their interest in his services and latest reports monitored by Owngoalnigeria.com has it that champions of Chinese Super League Shanghai SIPG have also joined his chase. 
--- Rohr picks Afelokhai as Uzoho’s replacement
Nigeria manager Gernot Rohr has handed a late call-up to Enyimba netminder Theophilus Afelokhai as replacement for Francis Uzoho for the Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against South Africa and international friendly against Uganda this month. 
Uzoho was forced to pull out of the Super Eagles roster after suffering an injury this past weekend which will keep him on the sidelines for at least four weeks. 
Nigeria will face South Africa in Johannesburg on November 17 before meeting Uganda three days later in Asaba. 
--- Man City goes top after masterclass performance
A rampant Manchester City reclaimed top spot in the Premier League overnight after a statement victory over Southampton, Pep Guardiola’s men won 6-1 at home as Raheem Sterling bagged a double in the rout. Elsewhere, Chelsea became their closest rivals after a comfortable 3-1 win over Crystal Palace. 
--- AFCON qualifier: Bafana Bafana names squad to face Nigeria
Bafana Bafana coach Stuart Baxter has recalled midfielder Thulani Serero of SBV Vitesse FC in the Netherlands in his squad for the must-win 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) qualifier against Nigeria at FNB Stadium on 17 November. 
--- Nigeria will qualify for 2019 AFCON : Rohr
Nigeria head coach Gernot Rohr believes that his side can secure either a draw or win against South Africa to qualify for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON). 
The Super Eagles are currently placed at the top of Group E standings with nine points and they will face Bafana Bafana on 17 November in Johannesburg, South Africa. 
A draw or win for Nigeria in South Africa will be enough to secure the West African giants’ place in the finals which will be hosted by Cameroon. 
--- Nigeria moves up , now 44th in FIFA ranking
Nigeria’s Super Eagles have moved up by four spots to the 44th in the world in the October FIFA -Coca-Cola Ranking 
In the ranking table published on the website of the world football governing body on Thursday, Nigeria garnered 1431 points as against 1415 it had in September. 
The movement has now placed Nigeria as the third in Africa behind Tunisia and Senegal. 
It should be calls that it was during this period that the Eagles thrashed Libya 4-0 (home) and 3-2 (away) in the African Cup of Nations qualifiers. 
Tunisia is ranked 22nd in the world and Senegal 25th. 
Congo DR (ranked 46th and Morocco(47th) are the other African countries among the top 50. 
On the global scene, Belgium are now ranked world number one, ahead of France with the narrowest of margin–just one point in the new FIFA/Coca-Cola World Ranking published today. The Belgians have 1733 points to France’s 1732 points. 
The top two remain out in front after a month in which each of them enjoyed a win and a draw, with Belgium and France beating Switzerland (8th, unchanged) and Germany (14th, down two) respectively in the UEFA Nations League. Brazil are third with 1669 points, Croatia fourth with 1635 and England fifth with 1619 points. Leo Messi’s Argentina are ranked 12th in the world.
--- Pliskova storms into WTA Finals semis
Czech Karolina Pliskova stormed into the semi-finals on Thursday after a convincing straight sets victory against compatriot Petra Kvitova, sending the former Wimbledon champion crashing out of the WTA Finals in Singapore. 
Pliskova became the first player into the final four after a 6-3, 6-4 triumph in 83 minutes. 
Kvitova needed to win in straight sets to keep her campaign alive but struggled throughout to complete a disappointing first WTA Finals appearance since 2015, the result puts pressure on reigning champion Caroline Wozniacki, who needs to defeat unbeaten Elina Svitolina in straight sets to keep her title defence alive. 
Former world number one Pliskova booked her spot in the semi-finals for the second straight year.
--- Messi sidelined for 3 weeks with fractured arm
FC Barcelona captain Lionel Messi will be out of action for three weeks after he fractured his right arm during Saturday’s 4-2 La Liga win over Sevilla, a club statement said. 
The injury ruled him out of the ‘Clasico’ against arch rivals Real Madrid on Oct. 28. 
Ousmane Dembele replaced Messi in the 25th minute after the Argentine was examined by club doctors on the sidelines following a challenge by Sevilla’s Franco Vazquez. 
In addition to missing the ‘Clasico, Barca’s all-time top scorer will be unavailable in Wednesday’s UEFA Champions League clash at home to Inter Milan. 
--- Mikel Obi hails Eagles
Super Eagles captain Mikel Obi has praised the team after they defeated Libya 4-0 on Saturday in an AFCON 2019 qualifier game in Uyo. Mikel, who was absent from the game due to niggling injury problems, congratulated the team for their spirit and as well the hero of the day Odion Ighalo who fired a hat-trick. 
--- 2019 AFCON Qualifier: Eagles camp opens today
Super Eagles camp  in Uyo will come alive today as Coach Gernot Rohr is expecting no fewer than 16 players to hit the Akwa Ibom state capital to commence preparations ahead of the crucial 2019 AFCON qualifier against Libya Saturday. 
Leicester City of England duo of Kelechi Iheanacho and Wilfred Ndidi, as well as Udinese defender, William Troost-Ekong are expected to lead 13 other players into the Super Eagles’ camp today, officials have confirmed. Watford striker, Isaac Success already arrived Lagos yesterday and is expected to fly straight into Uyo before midday. 
Hapoel Beer Sheva of Israel midfielder, John Ogu who helped his side end their winless streak in the Israeli league on Saturday with a 4-1 win at home to Maccabi Petach Tikva confirmed he will be in camp today. 
Also expected in Super Eagles’camp are Kenneth Omeruo, Leon Balogun, William Troost-Ekong, Shehu Abdullahi, Oghenekaro Etebo, Ahmed Musa, Moses Simon, Henry Onyekuru, Semi Ajayi, Ikechukwu Ezenwa and Ola Aina. 
--- Rafael Nadal stays top of ATP rankings
Spain’s Rafael Nadal continued to lead the men’s Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) world singles rankings released on Monday with 8,260 points, ahead of Switzerland’s Roger Federer. 
--- Musa Wins Saudi League Player Of The Week Award
Super Eagles winger Ahmed Musa has been named the best player in the third round of the Saudi Professional League, reports Completesportsnigeria.com. 
The former Leicester City and CSKA Moscow forward also received the sum of 10,000 Saudi Riyal (N970,045.83) for his efforts, according to the club’s website. 
Musa who has been in awesome form was also on target for the Super Eagles in their 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifier against Seychelles in Victoria which ended 3-0.
 --- U17 AFCON: NFF to give Eaglets top class preparations
After picking the sole ticket from the West Africa zone for the CAF U17 Africa Cup of Nations, Nigeria Football Federation president, Amaju Pinnick said the Golden Eaglets will be given adequate preparations, so that they can win the tournament in Tanzania next year. 
The Eaglets beat Ghana 3-1 on penalty shootout on Saturday night to win the ticket. 
Samson Tijani emerged as the Most Valuable Player, while Olakunle Olusegun was top scorer with four goals. 
“What we have now is a bunch of players that are truly young and with a bright future. 
For us in the federation, we have resolved to treat them like Super Eagles right from this stage. 
 We want them to be in the right mental and psychological mood as they grow up. The same way we prepared the Eagles for the World Cup in Russia is the way we are going to prepare them for Tanzania.  
We are looking beyond Tanzania. 
We are looking at the future and this is the time to begin to psyche up these kids,” Amaju said. 
He said the Eaglets will tour Qatar and Jordan before going to the tournament in Tanzania. 
--- Eaglets beat Niger, will face Ghana’s Starlets in final
Nigeria were 2-1 winners over hosts Niger Republic on Wednesday in Niamey to book a date with Ghana and rekindle a 67-year-old Nigeria-Ghana rivalry. 
The victory ensured the Golden Eaglets will take on the Black Starlets in Niamey on Saturday for a place in the 2019 Africa Under-17 Cup of Nations finals billed for Tanzania. 
The Eaglets kept their heads and did the hard work they had to do by beating hosts Niger Republic 2-1 in a very competitive match at the General Seyni Kountche Stadium.  
He had scored a brace in the 2-3 defeat to Burkina Faso in their opening match and another in the 5-1 mauling of Cote d’Ivoire last week. 
--- Weah makes ‘shocking International return’ against Nigeria……at 51!
Liberia President and former World Footballer of the Year George Weah made a surprise return to international competition in Monrovia on Tuesday, playing in a 2-1 loss to Nigeria. 
The match came up a few weeks short of his 52nd birthday and Liberia had arranged the friendly to retire the number 14 jersey made famous by Weah. 
However, fans were in for a shock when, 16 years after his last international appearance, the striker led the national team onto the pitch wearing it instead. 
Media reports said Weah, who led the attack and showed glimpses of the class that made him a household name around the world, he received a standing ovation from fans when he was substituted on 79 minutes. 
Goals from Henry Onyekuru and Simeon Nwankwo helped Nigeria to a 2-0 lead before the hosts pulled one back through a Kpah Sherman penalty late in the game. 
Weah enjoyed a career in Europe spanning nearly a decade and a half that saw him play for Monaco, Paris Saint-Germain and Marseille in France, AC Milan in Italy. 
He also played for English sides Manchester City and Chelsea. 
Weah was named the 1995 World Footballer of the Year; he also won the Ballon d’Or in the same year and remains the only African to win either award. 
--- Hiddink appointed coach of Chinese Olympic team
Guus Hiddink has been tasked with ensuring China qualify for the finals of the 2020 Olympic Games football tournament after the former Real Madrid and Netherlands coach was handed the reins of the country’s under 21 team on Monday. 
Hiddink, 71, becomes the latest big name coach to move to China since the country’s president, Xi Jinping, stated his desire for the nation to become a global football power. 
The Dutchman joins fellow European Cup-winning coach Marcello Lippi on the payroll of the CFA, with the Italian World Cup winner currently preparing the senior team for the finals of the Asian Cup in the United Arab Emirates in January. 
Top coaches such as Luiz Felipe Scolari, Fabio Capello, Manuel Pellegrini and Andre Villas Boas have also had stints with clubs in the Chinese Super League. 
--- PHOTOS: Super Eagles ‘basking in the Seychelles sunshine’
The Super Eagles are all but set for the make-or-mar AFCON qualifier against Seychelles in Victoria on Saturday. 
With a full house, the Nigerian side have been enjoying the ‘sweet sun’ that has swept this enchanting Island. 
--- UEFA NL: France holds Germany to a goalless draw
World champions France never hit top form and had third-choice keeper Alphonse Areola to thank for a 0-0 draw against Germany in their inaugural Nations League game on Thursday, their first appearance since lifting the World Cup. 
On a rainy night, Germany won back some respect with a battling performance after their shock World Cup group- stage exit in Russia, their earliest in 80 years in the tournament. 
“It was a tight match and we were better sometimes and at other times they were better,” said France coach Didier Deschamps. 
--- CAF U-17 AFCON: Eaglets target win over Burkina Faso
Mohammed Sanusi, General Secretary of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), on Sunday expressed confidence in the ability of the Golden Eaglets to beat Burkina Faso tomorrow. 
The U-17 West African Football Union (WAFU) B qualifiers gets underway in Niger Republic on Monday. 
Sanusi said the Manu Garba-led boys were fit and ready to crush any opponent in West Africa. 
He said they were well prepared to rekindle the glory of Nigeria in the U-17 category of global football. 
“We should be prayerful because tactically our boys are good to go; therefore, what we need now is just God’s intervention,” the federation scribe said. 
Nigeria’s U-17 team would contend with two opponents in their group because of the disqualification of Benin Republic. 
Ten out of 20 Benin Republic players failed the Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) test, leading to their disqualification. 
However, Nigeria is left with Cote d’ Voire and Burkina Faso in the Group. 
The Golden Eaglets will be slugging it out on Monday by 4 p .m. local time with Burkina Faso. 
The WAFU qualifiers is for qualification to the U-17 African Cup of Nations (AFCON) to hold in Tanzania which is a qualifying finale for U-17 World Cup tagged Peru 2019.
--- Team Nigeria departs for World Para Table Tennis Championships
Team Nigeria para table tennis players have left Lagos on for the 2018 World Para Table Tennis Championships in Beijing.
The team, comprising one female and three males, departed aboard an Ethiopian Airlines flight.
The lone female athlete is Faith Obazuaye, while her male counterparts are Nasiru Bello, Tajudeen Agunbiade and Olufemi Alabi.
The championships will serve off on Aug. 27 and end  on Sept. 3.
Bankole, speaking before departure, said the athletes were fully prepared for the task ahead.
“We believe in them and their abilities and I’m optimistic they will make the country proud. They should however, play all games cautiously with their eyes on the target.”
Bankole, who is also a Deputy Commissioner of Police, however, appealed to Nigerians resident in China to come and encourage their compatriots.
--- I’ll ensure I stay long at City – Kompany
Manchester City captain Vincent Kompany says his natural athletic ability and desire to keep improving can help him prolong his career with the English Premier League champions. 
The 32-year-old Belgian international defender has been forced to overcome a number of injury issues during his 10-year stint at the club. 
“I think what people have never really understood with me is that aside from having had some injuries I’m actually lucky to be a good athlete naturally. 
“So, I still feel mobile,” Kompany, whose contract expires next season, told the club’s website. 
Kompany was a substitute in Manchester City’s 2-0 win at Arsenal in their league opening fixture, but he returned to the starting side which thumped Huddersfield Town 6-1 last weekend. 
--- Hockey: 2018 Super League kicks off on Saturday
Fatai Atanda, Technical Committee member of the Nigeria Hockey Federation (NHF), on Thursday said the 2018 Super League would kick off on Saturday at the National Stadium, Abuja. 
Atanda said the tourney would be played on four quarter format, and that 16 clubs, comprising eight male and female categories, would participate in the tournament. 
In the previous year, Kada Queens of Kaduna lifted the trophy for the female category, while Niger Flickers won the men category. 
The league is in line with the efforts of the federation to promote hockey among Nigerians, especially the youth, to enhance professionalism.
--- Falconets can beat Spain – Garba Manu
Golden Eaglets Coach Manu Garba says he is optimistic of the Falconets’ capability to beat their Spaniard counterparts in the quarter-finals of the ongoing FIFA U-20 Women World Cup in France. 
Garba, who expressed the optimism in Abuja,  said the Falconets had worked well for glory in the World Cup which they were determined to achieve. 
“The Falconets have worked very hard to prepare for FIFA Women U-20 World Cup. 
“The quarter-finals is the knockout stage and it is possible to beat Spain if our girls can increase their penetration in the attack,’’ Garba said. 
The coach assured the Falconets of support of the entire country, saying that Nigeria was solidly behind them. 
He said that the team, with the help of God and hardwork, would qualify for the semi-finals. 
The Falconets on had Monday held China to a 1-1 draw to qualify for the quarter-finals. 
--- A call for sponsorship has been put out for the sport competition in Nigeria.
Companies and individuals thata have the ability to spend into sport through cooperation of individuals in sport in Nigeria have been urged for sponsorship.
Mr. Bukola Olapade, one of council in charge of the field sport competition in Africa, called African Athelethics Championship 2018 that came up in Asaba, Delta state said this when speaking to the newsmen in Asaba, Mr. Olapade now used the good work of Rite foods limited as an example, how they provided food and drink for the competitors in the competition.
When we approach them for their coporation in the sponsorship of the competition, immediately they showed interest, and they fully participated in the sporsorship of the of the field sport competition.
Mr. Olapade explained futher in the competition that many people at the opening ceremony were provided withfood and drink by Rites foods, and provided many soft drink and snacks for children in the competition.
The senior supervisor of Ritr Foods Ltd, Mr. Saleem Adegunwa established it that the company is trying all her best to support what will show the glory of Nigeria.
‘We have the believe that our people can do something different with their gifts, with our different support, by sponsoring, supporting with drums and other activities’
He establish this in his words.
Mr. Adegunwa said that Rit foods has spent something around Thirty million naira (N30 million) on the foods and drinks provided for the athletes , that which he said they ese as a support for the development of sport in Nigeria and Africa as a whole.
The senior supervisor of the company assured us that, though the competition is coming to an end on Sunday, yet Rite foods will continue in his effort to support Sport competitions. He said the reason for the support of Ritr Foods for filed sport competition in Asaba in 2018 was that provision ofrefreshment for the Champion.
He said the refreshments that will renew their strength afresh when competing.
--- Thank you – Ta Lou relishes Asaba triumph, appreciates fans
Following her triumph in the 100 metres final of the 2018 African Senior Athletics Championship in Asaba, Ivorien sprint star Ta Lou Marie Josée‏ has expressed her appreciation for the massive support from her countrymen. 
Marie Josee Ta Lou on Thursday won the gold medal in a time of 11.15 seconds, beating Ghana’s Janet Amponsah who clocked 11.54 seconds; and Nigeria’s young prodigy Udo Joy-Gabriel who finished with a time of 11.58 seconds. 
With the 100 metres title now in the bag, Ta Lou will try to consolidate on her global ranking by putting up stronger showings on the IAAF Diamond league circuit later in the year.
--- A disabled dancer encourage the Kenya Citizen.
The world health organization has said over eighty (81) million Africans that are diabled, and many of them face discouragement and hatred, which can kill their opportunity to take part in the in education, works and their well being.
For someone to dande in air is one of the common dance among the disabled in Kenya.
Nicholas Ouma Odhiambo said that the team gave him the opportunity to showcase in the dance competition. 
--- Why i accepted the Juventus challenge – Ronaldo
Portuguese striker Cristiano Ronaldo says he joined Italian giants Juventus because he wants to help the ‘Old Lady’ win more trophies – particularly the UEFA champions league. 
Speaking to the media shortly after his unveiling, Ronaldo said he wanted to leave a mark on the Serie A. 
“I like challenges and I know that this will be a difficult one. 
“The standing ovation I received here at the Allianz was a spectacular moment for me. 
Ronaldo promised to end Juventus’s European barren run. 
Ronaldo joined Juventus from Real Madrid in a deal worth over 100 million pounds. 
Within nine years, Ronaldo won four UEFA champions league titles, and two La Liga championships. 
--- VON wins NUJ Women’s Table Tennis Tournament
Voice of Nigeria’s Kissit Golit has emerged winner of the Women’s 2nd NUJ Chapel Table Tennis tournament. 
The annual tournament which enters its 2nd edition was played on Saturday, 14th July 2018 at the Chinese cultural central, Abuja. 
The Chinese cultural centre is collaborating with the Nigerian Union of Journalist (NUJ), FCT chapel. 
Tukumbo Adesonya emerged winner of the men’s 2nd NUJ inter chapel Table Tennis Tournament, he represented News Agency of Nigeria beating defending champion from the ministry of information, Henry Onosanya, Sangotola Tobi was one of the three people that represented Voice of Nigeria but was unlucky as he was eliminated in the quarter final. 
Also representing Voices of Nigeria was Comfort Babatunde who was eliminated in the first round. 
--- Official: Ronaldo joins Juventus in 105mn pounds deal
Portuguese striker Cristiano Ronaldo has officially left Real Madrid for Italian giants Juventus of Turin for 105 million pounds. 
In a statement released on Tuesday, Real Madrid said it sold Ronaldo to Juventus in-line with the wishes of the 33 year old. 
“Real Madrid wants to express its gratitude to a player who has proved to be the best in the world and who has marked one of the brightest times in the history of our club and world football.    
“Beyond the conquered titles, the trophies achieved and the triumphs achieved in the playing fields during these 9 years, Cristiano Ronaldo has been an example of dedication, work, responsibility, talent and improvement,” the statement said. 
Ronaldo leaves the Spanish capital having become the top scorer in the history of Real Madrid with 451 goals in 438 games. 
In total he won 16 titles, including 4 European Cups, 3 of them consecutive and 4 in the last 5 seasons. 
--- Mahrez signs five-year deal with Man City
Algerian international Riyad Mahrez secured his move to Premier League champions Manchester City on Tuesday, seven months after his hopes were dashed when City refused to pay Leicester’s asking price. 
This time though Leicester said they had sold him for what is a club-record fee, with some reports suggesting the champions paid £60 million ($79.6million), which would make it their record buy. 
The 27-year-old a pivotal figure when Leicester stormed to a shock Premier League title in 2016 signed a five-year contract. 
“I am so pleased to have joined City, a side playing great football under Pep Guardiola,. 
Watching them from afar has been a pleasure. 
Pep is committed to playing attacking football, which is a perfect for me, and City’s performances last season were outstanding.” Mahrez said. 
---Spain appoints Luis Enrique as new coach
Spain’s football federation says former Barcelona coach Luis Enrique has been appointed to take charge of the national team. 
He replaces Julen Lopetegui, who was sacked on the eve of the World Cup after accepting the job at Real Madrid, with Fernando Hierro taking temporary charge for the finals in Russia. 
Luis Enrique has signed a two-year contract. 
--- World Cup trophy on display in Moscow
The FIFA World Football Museum exhibition will present the 2018 FIFA World Cup winners’ trophy for the entire day of Sunday in Moscow. 
It will be displayed alongside the replica of the Jules Rimet Cup, the trophy that was first presented to winners in 1930 when the competition started. 
The exhibition, known as “The History Makers’’, will hold at the Hyundai Motorstudio on New Arbat Avenue in Moscow.  
The exhibition will end five days after the final match of the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia on July 15. 
World football body, FIFA, said in a statement on Saturday that admission to the exhibition was free, adding that media representatives were allowed to visit the exhibition, take photos or film inside. 
“The exhibition ground floor is a tribute to the passion and devotion of fans from all over the world and their role in making the FIFA World Cup a compelling spectacle. 
“There, visitors can see messages from fans of all 32 competing nations and a special display for the adidas Telstar Official Match Balls of the 2018 FIFA World Cup used for the kick-off of the 64 games played in Russia. 
“After each match, the ball which started the game is added to the growing collection at the exhibition,’’ a statement by Moritz Ansorge, the FIFA World Football Museum collections manager, indicated. 
--- Tite gets new 4 year contract
Brazil’s Football Federation (CBF) is offering head coach Tite a new four-year deal, despite the five-time World Champion’s elimination in the quarter-finals. 
According to the Brazilian website Globo, CBF is satisfied with the head coach’s work and is offering him a new contract. 
The 57-year-old took charge of Brazil in June 2016 helping the team qualify for the 2018 FIFA World Cup from the first place among the South American teams. 
Under Tite’s management, Brazil have secured 20 victories and four draws losing only two games so far, including Friday’s defeat to Belgium. 
