--- FIFA slams life ban on Kenyan referee
A Kenyan referee who had been due to officiate at the ongoing World Cup in Russia has been handed a life ban after being caught in a bribery sting. 
Aden Marwa was filmed receiving a 600-dollar bribe during Confederation of African Football (CAF) assignment in Ghana. 
He is one of 22 referees sanctioned by the CAF in an unprecedented clean up, announced at the weekend. 
Marwa, who was a reserve at the 2014 finals in Brazil, had earlier been removed from the list of match officials due to officiate in Russia. 
The life ban was handed out by CAF’s disciplinary board, which also banned 10 other referees for between two years and 10 years for similar offences. 
--- Pinnick appointed CAF 1st vice-president
The President of Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) Amaju Pinnick has been appointed as the 1st Vice President of Confederation of African Football (CAF). 
The letter reads ” Following resignation of the 1st Vice President, Mr Kwesi Nyantakyi and the prevailing situation in the Football Federation of Nigeria, the CAF President, after consulting the members of the Emergency Committee, appointed Mr Amaju Melvin Pinnick as 1st Vice President. 
”This decision is immediately applicable in accordance with article 27, para. 2 of the status which will be ratified by the Executive Committee in its session scheduled on Sept. 27 and 28, 2018, ” the communique reads, the appointment is another feather to Amaju’s cap as he currently head the Africa Cup of Nations committee which is in charge of organising the continent’s flagship event. 
He is also a member of the Organising Committee of the FIFA World Cup.
--- Quadri ranked 20th in the world, best in Africa
Aruna Quadri moved two steps up to number 20 in the latest International Table Tennis Federation ranking to become the top-ranked African player, gliding past Egyptian Omar Assar, who was previously in pole position in Africa. 
Prior to this latest ranking, Quadri was ranked 22nd in June. With 10,234 points,Quadri beat Assar, who accumulate 10,233 points in the latest ranking, and has dropped from 17 to 21  in the rating. 
It is the second time this year that Quadri will be breaking into the Top 20 in the world, having made the same spot in January 2018, the first Nigerian to achieve the feat. 
China’s Fan Zhendong retained the No.1 spot in the world, for the first time in his career, for the fourth consecutive month. 
However, for his country man, Ma Long, the reigning Olympic and world champion, it is a very different story; he drops from No.2 to No.6. 
He is the fourth highest ranked player from the China. Lin Gaoyuan climbs from No.5 to No.3; Xu Xin drops one place to No.6. 
It is the same fate for Germany. Timo Boll climbs two places and is now on the No.2 spot; Dimitrij Ovtcharov falls one rung down the ladder and now occupies the No.4 position. 
--- Thank you! – Mikel appreciates police for rescuing his father
Super Eagles captain John Mikel Obi has expressed appreciation to the Nigerian police for rescuing his father from captivity. 
Pa Michael Obi, along with his driver, was kidnapped by unknown gunmen on June 29, few hours to Nigeria’s World Cup match with Argentina in St. Petersburg, Russia. 
But he was rescued by men of the Enugu state police command on Monday, who engaged the kidnappers in a gun battle. 
“I would like to thank the police authorities involved in ensuring the safe return of my father after the ordeal of this week,” Mikel said via his tweeter account. 
He also thanked Nigerians for their prayers, as well as support. 
“My family and i are grateful,” he concluded. 
Despite this, Mikel went ahead to play the match without telling anyone of his predicament. 
This would mark the second time in seven years that Pa Michael Obi has been kidnapped.
--- Mohamed Salah signs new contract with Liverpool
Egyptian international Mohamed Salah’s stunning first season with English Premier League side Liverpool earned him a long-term contract with the club on Monday. 
The Egypt forward has committed his future to the Reds by putting pen to paper on the deal, a little over one year after originally arriving at Anfield from AS Roma,”. 
--- Video: Watch Russian players celebrate after knocking out Spain
Nobody gave the Russian football team any chance of making it out of the group stage. 
But they have defied all skeptics by knocking out Spain in the second round via penalties. 
--- IHF to train Nigerian handball coaches
President of Handball Federation of Nigeria Sam Ocheho has said plans are going on with the International Handball Federation to train the country’s handball coaches. 
Ocheho, who disclosed this in Lagos during the recently-concluded Sam Ocheho International Invitational Handball Championships, said the federation is determined to improve the skills of coaches as well as the technical officials in the sport. 
The HFN boss said the training would hold in Lagos, adding that the female national team would be in camp for two weeks to keep tabs and evaluate the progress of the players ahead of the future competitions. 
He said "We are currently in talks with the IHF to help us train and develop our coaches". 
The training will come up before the end of the year because we need our coaches to have the latest knowledge in the sport which will impact on the players as well. 
--- World Cup: Belgium beats England 1-0
Adnan Januzaj fired Belgium into the lead in this World Cup Group G decider. 
The former Manchester United man curled the ball into the top corner from the edge of the area, ensuring Belgium look set for top spot in the group unless England find an equaliser.  
Both sides, already qualified for the knockout stages, have made wholesale changes to their sides and neither looked especially keen to push on for victory. 
Belgium have picked up two yellow cards, meaning they have five for the tournament compared to England’s two. 
That means that if the game finishes a draw, England will top the group on the fair play method if the scores remain level at the full-time whistle.  
--- NFF celebrates Rohr, Balogun as they mark their birthdays
The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has congratulated Coach Gernot Rohr who marked his 65th birthday in Essentuki, Russia on Thursday. 
Rohr was born on June 28, 1953 in Mannheim, Germany. 
The former OGC Nice manager was appointed head coach of the Super Eagles in 2016 and he steered the team to qualify for the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia. 
Rohr’s contract was extended by the NFF till 2020. 
“Happy birthday to Super Eagles Coach Gernot Rohr. 
“The staff at the Essentuki Team Base Camp offered him a cake and bouquet of flowers to celebrate his day,” the NFF tweeted, with a picture of a celebrating Rohr surrounded by staff of the base camp. 
Rohr has been in charge of the Super Eagles for 20 games, winning nine, losing six and drawing five. 
The NFF also wished Super Eagles defender Leon Balogun who turned 30 years today (Thursday) a Happy birthday. 
Balogun, a German-Nigerian defender was born on June 28, 1988 in Berlin Germany. 
--- You’re our pride – CAF, FIFA scribe salute gallant Eagles
FIFA Secretary General Fatma Samoura, the Confederation of Africa Football (CAF) and some Nigerians believe Super Eagles made the continent proud despite their World Cup ouster. 
A 1-0 loss to Argentina in the last group D game at Saint Petersburg stadium sent the team to a third place with three points behind their South American counterparts with four points. 
Lionel Messi’s captained side will join group leaders Croatia with nine points in the knockout stages while debutants Iceland will head home with a point alongside Gernot Rohr tutored side. 
You have not only lifted the spirits of your country but the Super Eagles made them very proud of you,” she tweeted. 
Some Nigerian politicians also took to  their twitter handles to laud the team. 
Senate President Bukola Saraki tweeted: ” A great performance by our Super Eagles. 
We fought a good fight. 
However, you win some, you lose some. 
Raise your heads up, you inspired all 180 million of us. Thank you”. 
Senator Ben Murray Bruce tweeted: “Great game @NGSuperEagles. 
The score line doesn’t fluctuate the position of our hearts. 
We won together, we lost together. We remain proud of you guys”. 
With Egypt, Morocco and Tunisia out of the World Cup, Senegal, the only African nation left,  will take on Columbia in their last group H game on Thursday.
--- Croatia drops key players
Croatia coach Zlatko Dalic is set to rest up to eight players for their Russia 2018 World Cup final Group D game with Iceland. 
Dalic’s side are already through to the next round and are expected to rest Ivan Rakitic, Mario Mandzukic, Luka Modric, Dejan Lovren and Ante Rabic and other players at risk of suspension for the knock-out stage. 
“I’d like to top the group, but we have to take care because we have some players on yellow cards, so I will change the line-up,” said Dalic during his pre-match press conference. 
--- Saudi Arabia beats Egypt 2-1
Egypt also gave 45 year-old keeper Essam El-Hadary a chance to become the oldest ever player to appear at a World Cup 
Both Egypt and Saudi Arabia lost their first two games 
Al Dawsari scores the winner as Saudi Arabia finish third in Group A with 2-1 victory over Egypt Volgograd Arena.
--- World Cup: Uruguay pounds hosts Russia 3-0
Russia’s World Cup honeymoon feel came crashing down on Monday as they were pounded 3-0 by Uruguay. 
Luiz Suarez gave Uruguay a 10th minute lead with a sublime free kick that beat the Russian wall to give the South Americans the lead. 
Uruguay made the Russians chase the game as they dictated with crisp passing and runs. 
And it was 2-0 on 23 minutes as Diego Laxalt’s shot deflected off Russian midfielder Cheryshev to keep the South Americans further ahead. 
Akinfeev made a save but Cavani fired in the rebound to open his account for the tournament from a yard out on 90 minutes. 
Uruguay topped group A with 9 points with no goals conceded. 
They will face the runners-up of group B, with hosts Russia confronting the winner.
--- President Buhari congratulates Super Eagles
President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated the Super Eagles of Nigeria on their victory on Friday over the national team of Iceland in their second match at the Russia 2018 FIFA World Cup. 
The President expresses particular delight at the confidence, discipline, team-work and indomitable spirit displayed by the young Nigerian players. 
President Buhari urged them not to limit themselves but sustain the current winning momentum by going all out against their last group opponent, Argentina, next week. 
According to him: “I am confident that if our players believe in themselves, they can qualify out of their difficult group and even go very far in the tournament,” adding that “with determination, nothing is impossible.” 
The President urges all Nigerians to continue to rally round the Nigerian ambassadors with their prayers and other forms of support. 
Nigeria defeated Iceland by two goals to nil in the match, with Ahmed Musa scoring both goals in the second half of the match.
--- Eagles will do well in subsequent matches – Dalung
Nigeria’s Minister of sports Solomon Dalung says he is optimistic that Nigeria will do well in its subsequent matches. 
Solomon Dalung told VON correspondent Rafat Salami that all hope was not lost even though the Super Eagles lost their first game at the World Cup. 
He said this at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International airport, Abuja as he arrived from Germany. 
--- Russia 2018: Japan stuns Colombia 2-1
Japan’s defeat of Colombia makes it the first time they have ever defeated South American opposition at this level. 
All bets were on Colombia repeating their 2014 blowout of Japan – they thrashed the Blue Samurai 4-1 in Brazil. 
One of the goals scored by Japan was a penalty kick.
They got a penalty after Colombian defender Carlos Sanchez blocked a goal-bound shot from Japan’s Yuya Osako. 
--- Super Eagles hold early training session, prepare for Croatia
The Super Eagles held their training session today at 10.15am. 
The training was opened for the first 15 minutes, with focus on team tactics. 
--- Canada, U.S, Mexico to host 2026 World Cup
The 2026 World Cup will be held in the United States, Canada and Mexico after they beat Morocco by a margin of 69 votes to host the tournament which will be expanded to 48 teams for the first time. 
--- Lopetegui succeeds Zidane at Madrid
European champions Real Madrid have appointed current Spain coach Julen Lopetegui as their manager from next season. 
Lopetegui, fifty one years (51), succeeds Zinedine Zidane who stepped down after leading the LaLiga giants to three straight UEFA Champions League titles. 
 “Julen Lopetegui will be the coach of Real Madrid after the 2018 World Cup. 
Lopetegui was appointed Spain coach in 2016. 
He was previously FC Porto manager.  
He played briefly for both Real Madrid and Barcelona.
--- Russia 2018: Germany arrive for title defence
The Premier League stars met Erdogan in London last month with Gundogan handing him a signed Manchester City shirt with the message “to my president”. 
Germany landed in Moscow on Tuesday to attempt to successfully defend their World Cup title and hoping to leave the political controversy surrounding Mesut Oziland IlkayGundogan behind them. 
Their buildup was dogged by the controversy surrounding Ozil and Gundogan after the players, who have Turkish roots, were booed in pre-World Cup friendlies for meeting Turkish President RecepTayyip Erdogan. 
--- Ghanaian football official accused of corruption resigns from FIFA
Under investigation in Ghana for alleged corruption, FIFA Council member Kwesi Nyantakyi has resigned from the world soccer body. 
CAF president Ahmad says Nyantakyi also offered his resignation as first vice president of the continental body. 
Ahmad tells more than fifty (50) African football federations a special election meeting will be held Sept. 30 in Egypt for them to fill the vacancies. 
Candidates will come from the English-speaking group in CAF, the president says. 
A television documentary last week showed Nyantakyi taking $65,000 in cash from undercover reporters posing as businessmen to secure favor with Ghana President Nana Akufo-Addo and other government officials. 
--- Nadal beats Thiem to win his 11th French Open
Rafael Nadal hailed his 11th French Open title as “just incredible” after he demolished Austria’s Dominic Thiem 6-4, 6-3, 6-2 despite a worrying injury scare in the closing stages of Sunday’s final. 
The 32-year-old world number one now has 17 Grand Slam titles, just three behind great rival Roger Federer. 
Nadal endured a nervy conclusion to the final, however, when he needed treatment in the fourth game of the third set for a finger injury before sealing victory on a fifth match point when Thiem fired a backhand long. 
“It’s really just incredible, I played a great match against a great player,” said Nadal. 
To win eleven (11) times here it’s fantastic and not something I ever dreamed of. 
So I hope to see you all again next year.” 
Nadal joins Australia’s Margaret Court as the only player to win 11 titles at the same major. 
Victory also took Nadal’s record at Roland Garros to eighty-six (86) wins and just two losses. 
With a celebrity audience including actors Hugh Grant and Tim Roth as well as French stars Marion Cotillard and Jean Dujardin watching, Nadal flew out of the blocks. 
--- French open: Del Potro whips Cilic, to face Nadal
Argentina’s Juan Martin Del Potro came through a clash of the titans against Marin Cilic to reach his first French Open semi-final for nine years on Thursday, winning a rain-delayed duel 7-6, 5-7, 6-3, and 7-5. 
Del Potro needed only two points to pocket the first set as Cilic blinked first, netting a routine forehand a 5-6. 
Croatian Cilic played an awful game when serving for the set, making four unforced errors, but he was gifted another chance to serve for the set after breaking Del Potro again and at the second time of asking he leveled the match. 
--- FIFA ranking: Nigeria drops to 48th  position
Nigeria has dropped a point from its last month’s 47th position to 48 place in the world, and from sixth to seventh in the continent, in the latest FIFA rankings. 
A statement by FIFA said the recent flurry of pre-World Cup friendlies left its mark on the latest rankings. 
While the top three positions in the world are unchanged as Germany, Brazil and Belguim sit respectively, Russia-bound duo of Poland and Uruguay have succeeded in making strides within the top 20. 
Super Eagles World Cup Group D foes Argentina, Croatia and Iceland are on fifth, 20th and 22nd positions respectively. 
In Africa, Tunisia moved seven places down from 14th in the previous rankings to 21 as the continent’s top ranked team. 
Senegal follows in 27th place while DR Congo stayed on 38 with Russia-bound Morocco on 41st place and Egypt in 45th position. 
Ghana, a non-participant at the World Cup moved three places to 47th and sixth in the region. 
The next rankings will be released on July 19.
--- Putin warns governors – Don’t turn World Cup sites into markets
Infrastructure built in Russia for the World Cup should pay off in the future and be used for the development of popular sports, the president stressed. 
--- Wake-up! Ex-Internationals challenge Eagles to ‘find their form’
Following Nigeria’s 1-0 loss to Czech Republic at the Rudolf-Tonn-Stadion in Austria, ex-Internationals have warned that the Super Eagles must wake-up if they want to make an impact at 2018 world cup in Russia. 
Former Super Eagles winger Emmanuel Amuneke warned that the team risk crashing out of the 2018 FIFA World Cup in the group stages if they do not improve on their performances before their opening game against Croatia. 
Speaking with Complete Sports, Amuneke described the Eagles’ performance against Czech republic as “not impressive.” 
Corroborating Amunike’s position, former midfielder Garba Lawal fingered Nigeria’s slow start in games as a reason for their recent defeats in their pre-World Cup friendlies. 
--- Nigeria announces starting eleven against Czech Republic
Nigeria manager Gernot Rohr has announced his starting eleven for Wednesday afternoon’s international friendly against the Czech Republic in Austria. 
It is now very clear that Deportivo de La Coruña starlet Francis Uzoho is the country’s undisputed first-choice goalkeeper leading up to the World Cup as he starts his fifth straight game for the national team. 
The defenders selected are Abdullahi Shehu, Leon Balogun, William Troost-Ekong and Brian Idowu. 
The five players who have been chosen in midfield are John Ogu, Wilfred Ndidi, John Obi Mikel, Alex Iwobi and Victor Moses, meaning Joel Obi and Eddy Onazi drop to the bench following their dismal showing against England. 
Former Watford star Odion Ighalo is given the nod in attack ahead of Kelechi Iheanacho and Simeon Tochukwu Nwankwo. 
Nigeria Starting 11: Uzoho, Shehu, Troost-Ekong, Balogun, Idowu, Ogu, Ndidi, Iwobi, Mikel, Moses, Ighalo 
--- Confirmed: Arsenal signs Lichtsteiner
Arsenal have signed Swiss defender Stephan Lichtsteiner from Italian champions Juventus on a free transfer, the Premier League club said on Tuesday. 
The 34-year-old made more than 250 appearances for Juve, winning the Serie A title in each of his seven seasons at the club. 
He was named captain of Switzerland in 2016 and has earned 99 caps for his country. 
He is new Arsenal head coach Unai Emery’s first signing since taking over from Arsene Wenger last month. 
Stephan brings huge experience and leadership to our squad. 
He’s a player with great quality with a very positive and determined attitude. 
“Stephan will improve us on and off the pitch,” Emery said in a statement. 
On his part, Lichtsteiner expressed happiness joining the North Londoners at the Emirates. 
“Happy and honoured to be a Gunner! Will work hard and passionately day in and day out to achieve our sportive objectives and to win trophies with this great club,” he said via twitter. 
Lichtsteiner began his senior career at Swiss club Grasshoppers Zurich in 2001 and played for Lille in France, as well as Lazio in Italy before joining Juventus in 2011.
--- Russia 2018: Iran hit Russia
Iran became the first team on Tuesday to arrive in Russia for the World Cup, a month-long celebration of football that kicks off in Moscow’s historic Luzhniki Stadium on June 14. 
Playing in their fifth finals and ranked 36 by FIFA, Iran begins their campaign against Group B rivals Morocco on June 15 in Nizhny Novgorod. 
They then travel to Kazan for a June 20 clash against former World Cup winners Spain, before concluding their group stage matches against Portugal on June 25. 
Iran lost 2:1 to Turkey in their last friendly on May 28, and have one last World Cup warm-up against Lithuania on June 8.
--- Uzoho is good, we don’t have goalkeeping issues – Rohr
Head coach of the senior national team of Nigeria Gernot Rohr has revealed the qualities he admires the most in young goalkeeper Francis Odinaka Uzoho and the coach has also declared that the Super Eagles don’t have goalkeeper issue. 
Speaking after the 1-2 friendly loss against England, Rohr played down ‎talks about a goalkeeper crisis in his team ahead of the start of the World Cup in Russia, insisting that his three goalkeepers are up to the task of doing well in Russia. 
“I trust our goalkeeper, I hear here and then that we have goalkeepers problem but no we don’t have goalkeeper problems”, Rohr said. 
“He did very well against England and we are working a lot with him, we sent our goalkeeper coach twice to train him at Deportivo La Coruna to help him on some aspect of his game. 
He is the third choice at La Coruna but he is doing well. 
He is quiet , he is tall, he can come out , he is good on the line but he has to work. 
What I like in him a lot is that he is very humble”, he concluded. 
--- England vs Nigeria: Mikel, Iheanacho optimistic of good outing
Members of the super eagles have expressed optimism that they will give the Three Lions of England a run for their money when they meet at Wembley stadium in London on Saturday. 
Many Nigerian fans have criticized the Eagles for a “not-too-impressive” performance in their friendly match against the Leopards of DR Congo in Port Harcourt on Monday which ended 1-1. 
The Nigerians played two friendly matches in March, struggling to beat Poland 1-0 in Warsaw; but fell tamely 0-2 to Serbia a few days after in London 
However speaking from London, Eagles captain John Mikel Obi said the team had corrected early mistakes, and was ready for battle against a familiar foe.
--- Africa Youth Games: 26 Kwara athletes invited to camp
Twenty six Athletes from Kwara State have been invited to camp in ten different sports ahead of the preparations for the Africa Youth Games, holding in Algiers, Algeria, later in the year. 
Making the list available to Sportswriters, the State Director of Sports, Mallam Tunde Kazeem added that three coaches, Tajudeen Sulaiman (Badminton), Sidiq Bolaji (Wushu Kung Fu) and Sulaiman Abdulkareem Angulu (Rugby) have also gotten invitation to prepare athletes in their sports for the youth Games. 
Mallam Tunde Kazeem, who is also the Chairman of the Directors of Sports Forum in Nigeria, charged the athletes to justify their selection, and to be good ambassadors of the state at the national trials. 
--- We lost a star – NTTF mourns Seun Ajetunmobi’s death
Ajetunmobi, born  on Oct.10, 1985, died on Thursday in Lagos as a result of gas explosion. 
Anderson Bankole, a board member of NTTF, speaking in Lagos noted that the federation had lost one of its key players. 
Also, a table-tennis coach with Lagos State, Samson Ajayi, said that the player exhibited impressive performances as a national player in his life time. 
--- Rohr introduces GPS trackers to maximize training, performance
Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr has instructed national team players to wear GPS trackers before the start of the training session. 
--- Odion Ighalo heads to Uyo to join team mates
Super Eagles striker Odion Ighalo landed in Lagos from London on Tuesday morning and has given his word that he will link up with his international teammates in Uyo later today. 
The Super Eagles are expected to train this morning as the friendly with La Liga outfit Atlético de Madrid will take place at Godswill Akpabio International Stadium this evening, starting from 1800 hours. 
Speaking on the upcoming friendly against England, Ighalo said : ”England have a very good and fantastic team, we are not going to underrate them.  
”I am looking forward to that game because I have played in the EPL before and I’ll like to see some familiar players on the pitch again.” 
--- Iwobi signs up for LG ambassador
LG Electronics has signed Super Eagles winger, Alex Iwobi as its official brand ambassador. 
Speaking at the unveiling, Managing Director, LG Electronics West Africa Operations, Taeick Son said: “the choice of Alex Iwobi went through a thorough process and in the end we zeroed in on him, going by his antecedent in the field of play and most importantly how he is generally perceived as a player around the globe, 
--- Chelsea beats Manchester United to win FA Cup
Chelsea beat Manchester United 1-0 to lift the FA Cup thanks to Eden Hazard’s penalty at Wembley on Saturday to salvage a disappointing season. 
Though the victory in the finals is not enough to confirm the team coach Antonio Conte mule, who is expected to take over from him after the games this season, due to the inconsistence of the teamand does not qualify for the UEFA championship league in the next seasonafter ending up in the fifth position on the EPL chat. 
Now loosing the trouphy  of the game into the hand of the Chelsea, shows that Manchester football team ended this season without any trouphy.
According to the captain of the team, Gary Cahill we worked earnestly to win the trouphy to honor this season this year as a result of our consistency in all our different games we played. 
Romelu Lukaku who was the highest goal scored for Manchester United this season does not have the opportunity to take part in the competition from the beginningdue to the injury he sustained.
--- Super Eagles need total support from Nigerians, NFF – Dalung
Minister of Youth and Sport, Solomon Dalung has appealed to Nigerians to show solidarity and support to ensure the success of the Super Eagles at the FIFA World Cup in Russia 
Dalung in a statement issued on Thursday in Abuja by his Special Assistant, Media, Nneka Ikem-Anibeze, thanked the team for their commitment, patriotism and unity of purpose as the World Cup approaches. 
He urged the team and other stakeholders to continue to produce the desired results in their friendly games and aspire to win the cup. 
“I sincerely commend the Federal Government and Nigerians for their unflinching support and solidarity to the team and officials. 
The government assured Nigerians to do the needful before the friendly competitions to be played withDR Congo, England and Czech Republic.
Also the Minister commended NFF, the workers and the coaches for their efforts then he appealed to them to unit their heart for the training.  
--- DR Congo releases 28-man list for Nigeria friendly
--- Nigeria retains 47 position in FIFA ranking
As projected, Nigeria has retained her 47th position in the latest FIFA rankings 
The rankings released on FIFA website on Thursday recorded few changes as the first 47 countries retained their previous positions. 
Germany, Brazil and Belgium were on the top three positions, while Super Eagles world cup foes Argentina, Croatia and Iceland were on fifth, 18th and 22nd positions. 
The next rankings would be released on June 7.
--- Oborududu joins team Nigeria in New York
Nigeria’s Blessing Oborududu (68kg) has arrived in New York to join her teammates for the “Beat The Streets Invitational Wrestling Tournament’’ beginning on May 17. 
Oborududu was unable to travel on Sunday with her teammates due to visa problems. 
She joined Odunayo Adekuoroye (57kg) and Aminat Adeniyi (62kg) for the competition that will hold at the popular Times Square, New York. 
Speaking from New York, Purity Akuh, the wrestlers’ coach to the competition, said he was happy to finally have his full team on ground. 
 “I’m looking forward for the World Championships in Hungary later this year, and this tournament will also serve as preparation. 
--- Atletico flogs Marseille 3-0 to win third Europa cup
Atletico Madrid striker Antoine Griezmann struck twice as they beat hapless Olympique de Marseille 3-0 on Wednesday to win the Europa League for the third time. 
Marseille dominated the opening stages but gifted Atletico the lead when Andre-Frank Zambo Anguissa failed to control goalkeeper Steve Mandanda’s pass out and Gabi intercepted before setting Griezmann free to score in the 21st minute. 
Marseille had wasted a chance to take a fourth-minute lead when Valere Germain skewed his shot wide with only Jan Oblak to beat and it got worse for them when playmaker Dimitri Payet left the field injured in floods of tears in the 32nd minute. 
Four minutes after the re-start, Koke assisted Griezmann to score a goal. 
Gabi added a late third goal and the final score was 3-0
--- Brazil names provisional 23-man squad
--- Rohr announced a 30-man list of footballers for the World cup
Nigeria Coach Gernot Rohr has announced the country’s provisional squad for the upcoming FIFA World Cup in Russia. 
--- Nigeria face Argentina, Turkey in FIBA World Cup
Nigeria have been drawn against Australia, Argentina and Turkey in Group B  of  the 2018 FIBA Women’s Basketball World Cup from September 22 to 30 in Tenerife, Spain. 
Australia are ranked fourth in the latest FIBA rankings while Turkey are seventh and Argentina are 15th in the world. 
Coach Sam Vincent’s D’Tigress are currently ranked 37th in the world and fifth in Africa. 
Senegal  were drawn in  Group D  alongside Latvia, the USA and China. 
Nigeria qualified for their first World Cup in 2006 but failed to win any game at the competition. They were eliminated from the group stage. 
Meanwhile, the Nigeria Basketball Federation on Sunday said the team would camp in Atlanta, Georgia, USA for their World Cup preparations. 
The federation in a statement by their  spokesman Afolabi Oni  said  they  would release a provisional list of invited players for the competition after the Russia 2018 World Cup. 
--- Roberto Mancini quits Zenit as the Club Manager
Manager Roberto Mancini has agreed to leave Zenit St Petersburg by mutual consent. 
The 53-year-old has been heavily linked with the vacant manager’s job of the Italian national team. 
Former Manchester City and Inter Milan boss Mancini took charge of Zenit in June 2017, and they are fifth in the Russian Premier League. 
Zenit and Roberto Mancini agree to an early end to the manager’s contract,. 
The contract will be terminated by mutual consent without any compensation payable.
--- Edmund stuns Djokovic in Madrid open
Kyle Edmund enjoyed one of the biggest triumphs of his career by defeating former world number one Novak Djokovic 6-3, 2-6, and 6-3 in the second round of the Madrid Open. 
--- Tiger Woods to feature in British open
Former world number one Tiger Woods has confirmed his entry for the 147th British Open at Carnoustie, the tournament organisers announced on Wednesday. 
Wood, the 42-year-old has lifted the Claret Jug three times in his career but has not contested the sport’s oldest major championship since 2015 due to injury. 
Woods, a 14-time Major champion, has played seven times this year on his comeback after a successful spinal fusion operation last April. 
The British Open will be played from July 19 to July 22.
--- AC Milan goalkeeper Gianluigi's blunder made them loss the match 
A double blunder by Ac Milan goalie goalkeeper Gianluigi Donnarumma ensured that Juventus won the Coppa Italia on Thursday. 
Central defender Medhi Benatia struck twice for Juventus and Douglas Costa scored another goal. 
An own goal by substitute Nikola Kalinic made them to lose 4-0
--- Dennerby, the Super Falcons coach lists 26 for Gambia
The Super Falcons return to camp on Thursday ahead of  their 2018 Women’s  Africa Cup of Nations qualifier  against  Gambia. 
And Nigeria coach Thomas Dennerby has  invited  26 players, including overseas-based players. 
--- Ribery extends contract with Bayern Munich
Bayern Munich winger Franck Ribery has signed a one-year contract extension until the end of next season. 
The 35-year-old, who was out of contract at the end of the season, scored five goals in 19 appearances to win his eighth Bundesliga title with Bayern. 
“We’re very pleased that Franck is staying with us,” Bayern sporting director Hasan Salihamidzic said in a statement. 
Ribery joined Bayern Club since moving from Olympique de Marseille in 2007. 
“I’m very happy that I’ll get to play for this great club for another year,” he said, 
“Munich has long since become home for me and my family and I’m therefore very proud”
--- Eagles ready for World Cup – Balogun
Nigeria defender Leon Balogun says it is crucial his fellow  Super Eagles  team-mates stay injury-free ahead of the 2018 World Cup. 
Nigeria, the first side from Africa to seal a spot in Russia, have been drawn in Group D alongside Argentina, Croatia and Iceland. 
Balogun says the fitness of players will be key to having a successful campaign this summer. 
“We have a team capable of doing well in Russia and this team can perform to expectations if we have everyone in great shape,. 
I know injuries come with football and if we are very lucky not have it, then all the players in Nigerian colours have the spirit to fight for success until the end.” He said. 
At their last appearance, the experienced Super Eagles led by Joseph Yobo and Vincent Enyeama reached the second round in Brazil before losing to France, and Balogun says the current team is focussed on success. 
World Cup-bound England will be Nigeria’s opponents on June 2  at Wembley ahead of the final warm-up fixture against Czech Republic on June  6. 
--- The result of the football competitions in Nigeria (NPFL).
This is the result of the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) which came up last weekend: 
--- Super Eagles will excel at Russia 2018 – Yobo
Nigeria’s ex-international, Joseph Yobo, says he believes the current squad of the Super Eagles will excel in the forthcoming FIFA World Cup in Russia. 
Yobo said the team should not be intimidated by others in their group — Croatia, Argentina and Iceland. 
The former defender, Yobo commended the effort of the Coach, Gernot Rohr, in bringing together gifted players to fight for jerseys ahead of the mundial. 
Yobo said he was of the opinion that the challenge in the goalkeeping aspect would be overcome and the team would do the nation proud in Russia. 
“I believe the current squad of the Super Eagles would excel in Russia,” Yobo said. 
He noted that with the team having a rich blend of youth and experience
--- Roberto Mancini has agreed to become new Italy coach
Roberto Mancini has reached an agreement to become the next Italy coach, according to multiple media reports on Tuesday. 
The Zenit St Petersburg manager met with the Italian FA sub-commissioner Alessandro Costacurta and team manager Gabriele Oriali for over two hours in Rome on Monday evening. 
Gazzetta News agency said the federation had offered the former Manchester City manager a two-year contract until 2020 worth four million euros ($4.8million) a year. 
“Coaching the national team would be prestigious and a source of pride for me because Italy are one of the most important teams in the world,” Mancini said. 
Mancini is expected to take over the national team after the final round of Russian domestic fixtures on May 13 and before the May 20 deadline set by the Italian FA. 
During his 17-year coaching career Mancini led Manchester City to their first English title in 44 years in 2012. 
He also won three Serie A titles with Inter Milan and Italian Cups with Inter, Fiorentina and Lazio. 
Among the other names being touted for the position are Antonio Conte and Claudio Ranieri. 
--- Real Madrid sneak into third straight champions league final
Real Madrid have qualified for their third consecutive UEFA champions league final, but only just. 
The European champions held German side FC Bayern Munich to a 2-2 draw, but sneaked through 4-3 on aggregate. 
Joshua Kimmich gave Bayern a third minute lead, but Los Merengues responded through Karim Benzema who headed in the equalizer eight minutes later. 
Barely after resumption of the second half, Bayern keeper Sven Ulreich’s huge error ultimately proved decisive as his failure to clear a lose pass allowed Benzema to extend the Madrid side’s lead to two points.
James Rodriguez raised hopes with a close-range finish to tie the match at 2-2. 
Real Madrid will meet the winner of the AS Roma or Liverpool clash, which will be played at the Stadio Olympico on Wednesday in Rome.
--- VAR to be used for England, Nigeria friendly- Pinnick
President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) Amaju Pinnick, has announced that the Video Assistant Referee (VAR) will be used during next month’s high profile pre-World Cup friendly against England at Wembley. 
The football match will take place on June 2 in a warm-up game ahead of the World Cup in Russia. 
“VAR will be used for our friendly against England, Pinnick said. 
Eagles Coach Gernot Rohr has also backed VAR, saying it will make refereeing fairer. 
--- Dalung wants Eagles to play the football match with DR Congo in Abuja
Nigeria’s Minister of Youth and Sports, Solomon Dalung, has insisted that the international friendly match between the Super Eagles and Congo DR in May can only be played outside Abuja if National Stadium is not ready. 
Dalung was speaking with media after the opening ceremony of grassroots sports festival in Abuja on Monday. 
Dalung said the idea to play the match in Abuja was to bid the team farewell to the World Cup in Russia and probably convince President Muhammadu Buhari to attend. 
“We are looking at Port Harcourt if by then we are unable to complete work at the stadium here in Abuja.
The Super Eagles, who will face Argentina, Croatia and Iceland at the Russia 2018 World Cup, will play friendly matches with Czech Republic and England after the DR Congo friendly.
--- Anthony Joshua fight will definitely happen – Wilder
Deontay Wilder says he does not believe his unification fight with Anthony Joshua is in any doubt, despite his $50m offer not being accepted by his prospective opponent’s team. 
This week, Wilder offered Joshua $50m to accept the fight and set him a deadline of Thursday to make a decision. 
Joshua responded to Wilder on Instagram, saying “let’s roll”. But despite the Briton’s apparent willingness to fight, the deadline came and went without a deal. 
However, despite the latest hurdle in negotiations, Wilder is sure the fight is still going to go ahead. 
--- Ancelotti rejects Italy job as a coach
Carlo Ancelotti has turned down the offer to take over as Italy coach, according to press reports on Sunday. 
Italy have been without a permanent coach since Gian Piero Ventura was sacked after the four-time champions failed to qualify for the World Cup for the first time in 60 years after losing to Sweden in a two-legged playoff in November. 
Ancelotti, who was sacked by Bayern Munich inSeptember, had met with Italian Football Federation  officials in Rome last week. 
But Corriere dello Sport reported that despite the 58-year-old being offered the job he had decided to turn it down after taking a few days to consider his decision. 
Ancelotti has also been linked with taking over as Arsenal manager when Arsene Wenger steps down at the end of the season. 
The Italian coach, who has also managed Chelsea, Real Madrid, AC Milan, Juventus, Roma and Paris Saint-Germain, has three Champions League titles to his name as a coach. 
He has also won the three leagues in Italy, France, Germany and England. 
Among the other names being touted are Zenit St Petersburg coach Roberto Mancini, Chelsea boss Antonio Conte and former Leicester coach Claudio Ranieri, now in charge of French club Nantes. 
--- NPFL: Match Day 19 fixtures results
--- NNL season to commence saturday
Lawrence Katken, the Chief Operating Officer of Nigeria National League (NNL), says the league’s 2017/2018 season would start on Saturday. 
The league was earlier scheduled to start on March 3, but the addition of new clubs led to a postponement. 
“Last year 32 clubs participated in the league, but this year we have about 40 clubs in the league. 
“The new clubs are those relegated from the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL). 
Some were promoted from the Nationwide League One (NLO) and some of them bought other clubs’ slots to join the league. 
“The new clubs include Kada Football Club, Malumfashi FC, Bimo FC, Real Stars FC, Stores FC and Rovers FC. 
He said the competition’s organising body had agreed on the introduction of an abridged league system for the season. 
“We introduced the abridged system in order not to be interrupted by the Russia 2018 World Cup matches. 
“We will go on break as soon as the World Cup starts, and we will resume immediately after the global football event.
--- Real Madrid rally to pip Bayern Munich 2-1
--- Super Eagles will be ready for England friendly - Mikel
The Captain of the Super Eagles, Mikel Obi says the Super Eagles will be at their best for the prestige international friendly match against England at Wembley Stadium in London on June 2. 
“There will be no option for us other than to give our best with the FIFA World Cup fast approaching. 
The match comes up only two weeks before our first match at the FIFA World Cup. 
Nigeria take on Croatia in their first match at the 21st FIFA World Cup finals at the Kaliningrad Stadium on June 16. 
In their other Group D matches, they will then face Iceland at Volgograd on June 22. 
Meanwhile, tickets for the England/Nigeria match are still selling, with the lowest ticket going for 35 pounds. 
--- ‘Uzoho will shine at the world cup’ – Rohr assures
Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr is upbeat that young goalkeeper Francis Uzoho will come good at the World Cup in Russia as first choice. 
“I don’t think goalkeeping is the weak link in my team after we lost Carl Ikeme to sickness, we had what seemed like a goalkeeping crisis but Ikechukwu Ezenwa did well in the qualifiers but we kept looking for options. 
“I don’t believe he will get stage fright playing against the likes of Messi and other big names in Russia, because after playing against the likes of Lewandowski of Poland, Aguero and Di Maria of Argentina, I am optimistic that he would rise to the occasion in Russia.” 
On his 35-man team list for the World cup, Rohr stated that he would submit the lost by May 4 to the NFF.
--- ‘End of an era ‘- Arsene Wenger to step down from Arsenal
Long-serving coach of Arsenal football club, Arsene Wenger, has announced he will step down at the end of the season, ending a near 22-year reign at the club.    
“I am grateful for having had the privilege to serve the club for so many memorable years.     
“I managed the club with full commitment and integrity.     
“I want to thank the staff, the players, the Directors and the fans who make this club so special.     
“I urge our fans to stand behind the team to finish on a high.     
“To all the lovers, take care of the values of the club.     
My love and support for ever.” 
--- Antonio Conte commended Victor Moses.
Chelsea chief coach Antonio Conte has commended one of his players who is a Nigerian and a special player in the team of the Nigeria Super Eagles, Victor Moses.
Moses scoered a goal which helped Chelsea football team to win the competition with Burnley football team at Turf Moor stadium.
Though Ashley Barnes retured a goal to make the match one goal to two (1-2), but it was unfortunate.
Accoding to Antonio Conte, ‘we played very well today and we deserve the three goals, most especially Moses tried so much after he had scored a goal and helped for another  goal.
Winning in two in two consecutive games will help us a great deal to play very well in our forth coming competition.
Now Chelsea will face Southampton in the second league of the FA finals on Sunday.
For other games in English language. 
--- MFM kicked out of CAFCC by Djoliba
Nigeria’s MFM FC have been knocked out of the CAF Confederation Cup (CAFCC), despite playing out a 0-0 draw against Djoliba of Mali in the second leg of their play-off tie. 
The match played at the Modibo Keita Stadium in Bamako saw the hosts edged out the Olukoya Boys 1-0 on aggregate.  
Oumar Kida, Siaka Bagayoko and Mohammed Cisse also wasted clear-cut opportunities for the hosts in the entertaining encounter. 
Nigeria now has only one representative, Enyimba FC of Aba, left in the competition following the ouster of Plateau United and Akwa United. 
Plateau United lost 4-0 against Algeria’s USM Alger on Tuesday, bowing out 5-2 on aggregate. 
Also, Akwa United beat Al Hilal of 3-1 in Uyo earlier on Wednesday but exited the competition on away goals rule having lost the first leg 2-0. 
--- Kwara SWAN congratulates Olarinoye
The Kwara State Council of the Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN) has congratulated the erstwhile team doctor of Nigeria’s national Under-17 team, Dr Ayodeji Olarinoye, over his appointment as a Doping Control Officer (DCO) by the World Football Governing Body, FIFA. 
The SWAN in a statement issued in Ilorin by its Assistant Secretary, Abdulrosheed Okiki said the appointment is a well-deserved going by his track record of achievements in previous national assignments. 
The SWAN noted that Dr Ayodeji Olarinoye is the first Nigerian to achieve the feat and prayed that he succeed in the onerous task of championing anti-doping in football at the international level.  
The SWAN recalled that Dr Olarinoye made his name as the team doctor for the 2013 and 2015 Golden Eaglets teams that won the FIFA Under-seventeen World Cup. 
Dr Olarinoye is the son of retired civil servant and former Head of International Department of the NFF, Dr Steve Olarinoye. 
--- FIFA rankings: Nigeria now ranked 47th
Nigeria has moved five places up, now 47th in the world and sixth in Africa with 635 points in the April FIFA/Coca Cola rankings released. 
In the previous rankings, Nigeria was on 52nd position with 609 points. 
Meanwhile, Tunisia is the highest ranked African team on 14th place with Senegal and DR Congo on 28 and 38 positions respectively. 
Germany still retains first place with Brazil following closely while Belgium who was fifth in the March rankings is now third. 
Nigeria’s foes at the 2018 World Cup Argentina, Croatia and Iceland have plummeted from their current positions, with the South Americans now fifth, Croatia 18th and the Nordic country 22nd. 
The next world ranking will be published  on 17 May, 2018. 
--- Real Madrid and Bayern Munich are moving to the semi-finals of UEFA
--- Jos stadium to be ready in May
The Jos ultra-modern stadium will be ready for continental matches in May, Mr Plamen Iliev, Director, BCC Tropical Nig. Ltd, handlers of the project, said in Jos. 
Iliev told Plateau governor Simon Lalong, who paid an unscheduled visit to the site, that materials needed to meet Confederation of African Football (CAF) specifications had been acquired and were being installed. 
Reigning Premier League Champions, Plateau United, one of Nigeria’s four representatives in CAF continental competitions, have been banned from playing their home matches in Jos because of the state of the stadium. 
Supporters of the Jos side have blamed the soccer outfit’s early exit from the CAF Champions League on the fact that it played its home matches in Kano, far away from home. 
Iliev, who took governor Simon Lalong round the stadium, said that the dressing room, the seats, the scoreboards and other requirements of CAF would be ready in May. 
In a brief remark, Lalong said that government had desired to meet all the conditions before the commencement of the NPFL and CAF competitions. 
--- 5 Cameroonian athletes missing at Commonwealth Games
Five Cameroonian athletes competing at the Commonwealth Games in Australia have gone missing. 
The country’s Team Manager, Victor Agbor Nso, said on Tuesday. 
Nso told Cameroon state broadcaster CRTV that Weightlifter Olivier Matam and boxers Ndzie Tchoyi and Simplice Fotsala were due to compete on Tuesday but could not be found. 
He added that two other weightlifters Aka Angeline Filji and Mikoumba Petit David, had earlier gone missing from the games at the Gold Coast, but did not specify when. 
He explained that Australian police were informed about the situation. 
He said "we have officially informed our hierarchy back home: the Ministry of Sports and the president of the National Olympic Committee of Cameroon". 
We have also laid formal complaint to the Australian police. 
It is not the first time Cameroonian athletes disappeared at major sporting event. 
In 2012, five male boxers, a female footballer and a male swimmer absconded from the London Olympic village. 
--- Jurgen Klopp-Idije Champions League has to do with the result.
Liverpool chief coach, Jurgen Klopp has commended his team after defeatin g their counterpart Manchester City out of the UEFA champions League with two goals to one (2-1), to qualify for the semi finals of the game.
After Liverpool won in the first match with three goals to nothing (3-0) at Anfield stadium.
Though City scored a goal immediately the match started, but the stuggle was much after Liverpool retured two gaol immediately the second half of the game started at Etihad stadium.
According to Klopp, ‘I’m not happy for the way we played in the first half of the game. 
We did not do very well, but I spoke with my football team to make up their mind and I am so happy that we won at the end! UEFA Champion League has nothing to do with how good the football team or how well they played but the result of the two halves in the tunament. 
Now Real Madrid football team will host Juventus at the Santiago stadium, also Bayern Munich will host Sevila at Alliance Arena Stadium. 
--- Powerlifter Oyema sets world record, Ezuruike, Ndidi win gold
Nigeria’s gold rush at the ongoing commonwealth games is well and truly on with the para powerlifters leading the charge. 
Para powerlifter Esther Oyema set a new world record by winning a gold medal in the lightweight category. 
Oyema set a new world record for the women’s under 50kg class with a 141.6kg lift, edging compatriot Lucy Ejike, who claimed the silver medal with a lift of 131.4kg. 
In the men’s lightweight category Roland Ezuruike led Nigeria to a one-two finish by claiming the gold medal with a lift of 224.3kg. 
Fellow Nigerian Paul Kehinde picked up the silver with a 219.9kg lift. 
In the heavyweight category, Ndidi Nwosu won the gold medal to take Nigeria’s medal haul to four gold, four silver medals.
--- Harry Kane: I hope to catch up with Salah
Tottenham Hotspur striker Harry Kane remains hopeful of overhauling Liverpool’s Mohamed Salah in the race for the 2017/2018 English Premier League’s Golden Boot award. 
But the EPL forward is also focused on helping Spurs finish the season strongly. 
Kane is bidding to end the campaign as the division’s top scorer for the third time in a row.  
“I still believe I can,” Kane told British media. “Whatever happens, there are still games to go. I’ve got to focus on my game. 
Spurs next face Manchester City in the league on Saturday, before taking on Manchester United in an FA Cup semi-final on April 21.
--- quarter final of the UEFA Champions League.
--- Ahmed Musa, Moses Simon join DW sports management
Super Eagles duo of Ahmed Musa and Moses Simon have joined sports agency DW sports management. 
This means the sports agency will now be in charge of the players’ transfer negotiation with any club they desire to play for. 
Veteran winger Musa’s move to the French consortium ends his long association with football agent Tony Harris, who was pivotal Musa’s departure from former Nigerian league champions Kano Pillars to Europe. 
Moses Simon was also under the agency of Tony Harris. 
DW sports management through their twitter handle expressed delight to have both players under their books. 
The move brings to seven the number of current Eagles team members now working with DW sports management. 
The other Nigerian players are Bryan Idowu, Shehu Abdulahi, Henry Onyekuru, Oghenekaro Etebo, and Mikel Agu.
---sixty-four (64) teams for 2018 Mike Okonkwo Cup
Sixty-four  clubs have been confirmed for the 2018  Bishop Mike Okonkwo Football Championship scheduled to kick off on May 5 this year at the National Stadium in Lagos. 
According to the organisers, the competition will feature eight teams in the  female category, which  has  just been  introduced. 
Chairman of the organising committee for  the competition Malachy Ndubuzor said in a statement that some of the players discovered  would form the basis of the TREM Football Academy. 
He said the finals of both categories would hold at the Yaba College of Technology  in Lagos on September 1. 
Former Super Eagles player Waheed Akanni, who was a special guest at the draws, commended Bishop Mike Okonkwo for investing in the youths with the annual football championship. 
He said such competitions would discover more youths that are talented football players. 
--- Europa League: Arsenal, Athletico close in on semis
Arsenal took a big step towards reaching the Europa League semi-finals after a 4-1 rout of CSKA Moscow and Atletico Madrid did the same with a 2-0 home win over Sporting Lisbon on Thursday. 
Lazio also stayed on course to progress after an action-packed 4-2 home win over Salzburg in their quarter-final first leg and upstarts RB Leipzig will head to Olympique de Marseille with a 1-0 advantage. 
Koke scored inside the opening 30 seconds and Antoine Griezmann added the second shortly before half-time. 
--- 2018 Commonwealth Games: Nigeria defeats Malaysia in table tennis
The Nigerian table tennis team began their campaign in Group 4 of the men’s team event at the 2018 Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast, Australia on a bright note on Thursday. 
Team Nigeria defeated Malaysia and Belize in their opening two ties on Thursday. 
Olajide Omotayo defeated Chee Feng from Malaysia in three straight sets, recording 13-11, 15-13, 11-7 in his second match of the day. 
Abiodun will take on Javen Choong from Malaysia and Terry Su from Belize later on Thursday in his remaining games, while Jamiu will face Rohit Pagarani from Belize. 
The Gold Coast Commonwealth Games will be Nigeria’s 13th since its maiden appearance in 1950. 
Team Nigeria will also be seeking to surpass their best performance at the competition, having won a record 37 medals at the 1994 Commonwealth Games in Canada. 
Nigeria won 36 medals (11 Gold, 11 silver and 14 bronze) at the last edition of the Commonwealth Games which was held in Glasgow, Scotland in 2014. 
The 2018 Commonwealth Games which got underway with a colourful opening ceremony on Wednesday is expected to end on April 15. 
--- Commonwealth: Sally Pearson sad over injury knock-out
Australia’s world champion 100m hurdler Sally Pearson has been forced to withdraw from her home Commonwealth Games as she battles a serious Achilles injury that could sideline her for up to a year. 
--- Commonwealth Games: Dalung urges Team Nigeria to compete fairly
The Minister of Youths and Sports, Solomon Dalung, on Tuesday advised Nigerian athletes at the XXI Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast, Australia to compete fairly without tarnishing the country’s image. 
Nneka Ikem-Anibeze, the Special Assistant on Media to Dalung, quoted the minister in a statement as giving the advice while addressing Team Nigeria athletes and officials in Gold Coast. 
He addressed the athletes immediately after the Welcome Ceremony organised by the organisers of the Games to officially welcome Team Nigeria to the Games Village. 
I see you are all to be in high spirits and it shows that you have prepared for the competition.  
It is the President’s wish, that at the end of our sojourn here, the name of Nigeria will be greater. 
The ceremony saw the athletes being entertained with a dance troupe from the Munujali tribe. 
Each gold medalist will receive $5,000, silver will attract $3,000 while bronze medalists will get $2,000 each. 
Also at the Games village to encourage the athletes were the past and present Presidents of the Nigeria Olympic Committee (NOC), Sani Ndanusa and Habu Gumel respectively, as well as the Nigerian Ambassador to Australia, Bello Husseini. 
The opening ceremony of the XXI Commonwealth Games holds on Wednesday at the Carrara Stadium in Gold Coast from 7 p.m. 
--- Cristiano Ronaldo thanks all the Juventus fans
--- The NPFL match will come up today
This are the matches that will be coming up in the Nigeria NPFL today: 
--- West Brom and Alan Pardew part ways ‘by mutual consent’
Pardew was only appointed four months ago to improve West Brom’s standing on the Premier League (EPL) table.
